<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Spoon River Anthology</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="spoon-river-anthology" epub:type="part">
			<article id="the-hill" epub:type="epigraph z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Hill</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Where are Elmer, Herman, Bert, Tom and Charley,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weak of will, the strong of arm, the clown, the boozer, the fighter?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All, all are sleeping on the hill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One passed in a fever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One was burned in a mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One was killed in a brawl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One died in a jail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One fell from a bridge toiling for children and wife⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All, all are sleeping, sleeping, sleeping on the hill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where are Ella, Kate, Mag, Lizzie and Edith,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tender heart, the simple soul, the loud, the proud, the happy one?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All, all are sleeping on the hill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One died in shameful child-birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One of a thwarted love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One at the hands of a brute in a brothel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One of a broken pride, in the search for heart’s desire;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One after life in far-away London and Paris</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was brought to her little space by Ella and Kate and Mag⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All, all are sleeping, sleeping, sleeping on the hill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where are Uncle Isaac and Aunt Emily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And old Towny Kincaid and Sevigne Houghton,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Major Walker who had talked With venerable men of the revolution?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All, all are sleeping on the hill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They brought them dead sons from the war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And daughters whom life had crushed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And their children fatherless, crying⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All, all are sleeping, sleeping, sleeping on the hill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where is Old Fiddler Jones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who played with life all his ninety years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Braving the sleet with bared breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drinking, rioting, thinking neither of wife nor kin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor gold, nor love, nor heaven?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! he babbles of the fish-frys of long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the horse-races of long ago at Clary’s Grove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what Abe Lincoln said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One time at Springfield.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hod-putt" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hod Putt</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Here I lie close to the grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Old Bill Piersol,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who grew rich trading with the Indians, and who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Afterwards took the bankrupt law</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And emerged from it richer than ever</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself grown tired of toil and poverty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beholding how Old Bill and other grew in wealth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Robbed a traveler one night near Proctor’s Grove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Killing him unwittingly while doing so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For which I was tried and hanged.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was my way of going into bankruptcy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now we who took the bankrupt law in our respective ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleep peacefully side by side.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ollie-mcgee" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ollie McGee</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Have you seen walking through the village</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man with downcast eyes and haggard face?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is my husband who, by secret cruelty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never to be told, robbed me of my youth and my beauty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till at last, wrinkled and with yellow teeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with broken pride and shameful humility,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sank into the grave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what think you gnaws at my husband’s heart?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The face of what I was, the face of what he made me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These are driving him to the place where I lie.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In death, therefore, I am avenged.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fletcher-mcgee" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Fletcher McGee</h2>
				<p>
					<span>She took my strength by minutes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She took my life by hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She drained me like a fevered moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That saps the spinning world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The days went by like shadows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minutes wheeled like stars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She took the pity from my heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made it into smiles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was a hunk of sculptor’s clay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My secret thoughts were fingers:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They flew behind her pensive brow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lined it deep with pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They set the lips, and sagged the cheeks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drooped the eye with sorrow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul had entered in the clay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fighting like seven devils.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was not mine, it was not hers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She held it, but its struggles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Modeled a face she hated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a face I feared to see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I beat the windows, shook the bolts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hid me in a corner⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then she died and haunted me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hunted me for life.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="robert-fulton-tanner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Robert Fulton Tanner</h2>
				<p>
					<span>If a man could bite the giant hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That catches and destroys him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I was bitten by a rat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While demonstrating my patent trap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my hardware store that day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a man can never avenge himself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the monstrous ogre Life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You enter the room⁠—that’s being born;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then you must live⁠—work out your soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aha! the bait that you crave is in view:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A woman with money you want to marry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prestige, place, or power in the world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there’s work to do and things to conquer⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, yes! the wires that screen the bait.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last you get in⁠—but you hear a step:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ogre, Life, comes into the room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(He was waiting and heard the clang of the spring)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To watch you nibble the wondrous cheese,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stare with his burning eyes at you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scowl and laugh, and mock and curse you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Running up and down in the trap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until your misery bores him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="cassius-hueffer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Cassius Hueffer</h2>
				<p>
					<span>They have chiseled on my stone the words:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“His life was gentle, and the elements so mixed in him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That nature might stand up and say to all the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This was a man.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those who knew me smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As they read this empty rhetoric.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My epitaph should have been:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Life was not gentle to him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the elements so mixed in him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he made warfare on life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the which he was slain.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While I lived I could not cope with slanderous tongues,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now that I am dead I must submit to an epitaph</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Graven by a fool!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="serepta-mason" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Serepta Mason</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My life’s blossom might have bloomed on all sides</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save for a bitter wind which stunted my petals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the side of me which you in the village could see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the dust I lift a voice of protest:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My flowering side you never saw!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ye living ones, ye are fools indeed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who do not know the ways of the wind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the unseen forces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That govern the processes of life.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="amanda-barker" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Amanda Barker</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Henry got me with child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knowing that I could not bring forth life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without losing my own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my youth therefore I entered the portals of dust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Traveler, it is believed in the village where I lived</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Henry loved me with a husband’s love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I proclaim from the dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he slew me to gratify his hatred.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="constance-hately" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Constance Hately</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You praise my self-sacrifice, Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In rearing Irene and Mary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Orphans of my older sister!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you censure Irene and Mary</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For their contempt for me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But praise not my self-sacrifice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And censure not their contempt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I reared them, I cared for them, true enough!-</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I poisoned my benefactions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With constant reminders of their dependence.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chase-henry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Chase Henry</h2>
				<p>
					<span>In life I was the town drunkard;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I died the priest denied me burial</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In holy ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The which redounded to my good fortune.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the Protestants bought this lot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And buried my body here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Close to the grave of the banker Nicholas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of his wife Priscilla.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take note, ye prudent and pious souls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the cross-currents in life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which bring honor to the dead, who lived in shame.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="harry-carey-goodhue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Harry Carey Goodhue</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You never marveled, dullards of Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Chase Henry voted against the saloons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To revenge himself for being shut off.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But none of you was keen enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To follow my steps, or trace me home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Chase’s spiritual brother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you remember when I fought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bank and the courthouse ring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For pocketing the interest on public funds?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I fought our leading citizens</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For making the poor the pack-horses of the taxes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I fought the water works</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For stealing streets and raising rates?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I fought the business men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fought me in these fights?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then do you remember:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That staggering up from the wreck of defeat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wreck of a ruined career,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I slipped from my cloak my last ideal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hidden from all eyes until then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the cherished jawbone of an ass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And smote the bank and the water works,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the business men with prohibition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made Spoon River pay the cost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the fights that I had lost.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judge-somers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Judge Somers</h2>
				<p>
					<span>How does it happen, tell me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I who was most erudite of lawyers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knew Blackstone and Coke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Almost by heart, who made the greatest speech</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The courthouse ever heard, and wrote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A brief that won the praise of Justice Breese⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How does it happen, tell me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I lie here unmarked, forgotten,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While Chase Henry, the town drunkard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has a marble block, topped by an urn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein Nature, in a mood ironical,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has sown a flowering weed?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="kinsey-keene" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Kinsey Keene</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Your attention, Thomas Rhodes, president of the bank;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coolbaugh Whedon, editor of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Argus</i>;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr>Rev.</abbr> Peet, pastor of the leading church;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. D.</abbr> Blood, several times Mayor of Spoon River;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And finally all of you, members of the Social Purity Club⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your attention to Cambronne’s dying words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Standing with the heroic remnant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Napoleon’s guard on Mount Saint Jean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the battle field of Waterloo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Maitland, the Englishman, called to them:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Surrender, brave Frenchmen!”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There at close of day with the battle hopelessly lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hordes of men no longer the army</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the great Napoleon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Streamed from the field like ragged strips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of thunder clouds in the storm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, what Cambronne said to Maitland</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere the English fire made smooth the brow of the hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the sinking light of day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Say I to you, and all of you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to you, O world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I charge you to carve it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon my stone.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="benjamin-pantier" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Benjamin Pantier</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Together in this grave lie Benjamin Pantier, attorney at law,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Nig, his dog, constant companion, solace and friend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down the gray road, friends, children, men and women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passing one by one out of life, left me till I was alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Nig for partner, bed-fellow, comrade in drink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the morning of life I knew aspiration and saw glory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then she, who survives me, snared my soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a snare which bled me to death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I, once strong of will, lay broken, indifferent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Living with Nig in a room back of a dingy office.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under my jawbone is snuggled the bony nose of Nig⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our story is lost in silence. Go by, mad world!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-benjamin-pantier" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Benjamin Pantier</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I know that he told that I snared his soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a snare which bled him to death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the men loved him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And most of the women pitied him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But suppose you are really a lady, and have delicate tastes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loathe the smell of whiskey and onions.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rhythm of Wordsworth’s “Ode” runs in your ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While he goes about from morning till night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Repeating bits of that common thing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Oh, why should the spirit of mortal be proud?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then, suppose:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are a woman well endowed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the only man with whom the law and morality</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Permit you to have the marital relation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the very man that fills you with disgust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every time you think of it⁠—while you think of it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every time you see him?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s why I drove him away from home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To live with his dog in a dingy room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back of his office.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reuben-pantier" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Reuben Pantier</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Well, Emily Sparks, your prayers were not wasted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your love was not all in vain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I owe whatever I was in life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To your hope that would not give me up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To your love that saw me still as good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear Emily Sparks, let me tell you the story.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pass the effect of my father and mother;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The milliner’s daughter made me trouble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And out I went in the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I passed through every peril known</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wine and women and joy of life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One night, in a room in the Rue de Rivoli,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was drinking wine with a black-eyed cocotte,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the tears swam into my eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She though they were amorous tears and smiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For thought of her conquest over me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my soul was three thousand miles away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the days when you taught me in Spoon River.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And just because you no more could love me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor pray for me, nor write me letters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The eternal silence of you spoke instead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Black-eyed cocotte took the tears for hers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well as the deceiving kisses I gave her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somehow, from that hour, I had a new vision⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear Emily Sparks!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="emily-sparks" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Emily Sparks</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Where is my boy, my boy⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In what far part of the world?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The boy I loved best of all in the school?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, the teacher, the old maid, the virgin heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who made them all my children.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did I know my boy aright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking of him as a spirit aflame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Active, ever aspiring?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, boy, boy, for whom I prayed and prayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In many a watchful hour at night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you remember the letter I wrote you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the beautiful love of Christ?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And whether you ever took it or not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My boy, wherever you are,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Work for your soul’s sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all the clay of you, all of the dross of you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May yield to the fire of you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the fire is nothing but light!⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing but light!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="trainor-the-druggist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Trainor, the Druggist</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Only the chemist can tell, and not always the chemist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What will result from compounding</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fluids or solids.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who can tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How men and women will interact</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On each other, or what children will result?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There were Benjamin Pantier and his wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good in themselved, but evil toward each other:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He oxygen, she hydrogen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their son, a devastating fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I Trainor, the druggist, a miser of chemicals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Killed while making an experiment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lived unwedded.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="daisy-fraser" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Daisy Fraser</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Did you ever hear of Editor Whedon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Giving to the public treasury any of the money he received</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For supporting candidates for office?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or for writing up the canning factory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get people to invest?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or for suppressing the facts about the bank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When it was rotten and ready to break?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did you ever hear of the Circuit Judge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Helping anyone except the “Q” railroad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or the bankers? Or did <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Peet or <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Sibley</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give any part of their salary, earned by keeping still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or speaking out as the leaders wished them to do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the building of the water works?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I⁠—Daisy Fraser who always passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the street through rows of nods and smiles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And coughs and words such as “there she goes,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never was taken before Justice Arnett</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without contributing ten dollars and costs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the school fund of Spoon River!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="benjamin-fraser" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Benjamin Fraser</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Their spirits beat upon mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the wings of a thousand butterflies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I closed my eyes and felt their spirits vibrating.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I closed my eyes, yet I knew when their lashes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fringed their cheeks from downcast eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when they turned their heads;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when their garments clung to them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or fell from them, in exquisite draperies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their spirits watched my ecstasy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With wide looks of starry unconcern.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their spirits looked upon my torture;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They drank it as it were the water of life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With reddened cheeks, brightened eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rising flame of my soul made their spirits gilt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the wings of a butterfly drifting suddenly into sunlight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they cried to me for life, life, life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But in taking life for myself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In seizing and crushing their souls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a child crushes grapes and drinks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From its palms the purple juice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I came to this wingless void,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where neither red, nor gold, nor wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor the rhythm of life is known.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="minerva-jones" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Minerva Jones</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I am Minerva, the village poetess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hooted at, jeered at by the Yahoos of the street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my heavy body, cock-eye, and rolling walk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the more when “Butch” Weldy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Captured me after a brutal hunt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He left me to my fate with Doctor Meyers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I sank into death, growing numb from the feet up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like one stepping deeper and deeper into a stream of ice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will some one go to the village newspaper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gather into a book the verses I wrote?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thirsted so for love!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hungered so for life!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="indignation-jones" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">“Indignation” Jones</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You would not believe, would you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I came from good Welsh stock?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I was purer blooded than the white trash here?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of more direct lineage than the New Englanders</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Virginians of Spoon River?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You would not believe that I had been to school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And read some books.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You saw me only as a run-down man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With matted hair and beard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ragged clothes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes a man’s life turns into a cancer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From being bruised and continually bruised,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swells into a purplish mass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like growths on stalks of corn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here was I, a carpenter, mired in a bog of life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into which I walked, thinking it was a meadow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a slattern for a wife, and poor Minerva, my daughter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom you tormented and drove to death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I crept, crept, like a snail through the days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of my life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more you hear my footsteps in the morning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resounding on the hollow sidewalk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Going to the grocery store for a little corn meal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a nickel’s worth of bacon.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="doctor-meyers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Doctor Meyers</h2>
				<p>
					<span>No other man, unless it was Doc Hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did more for people in this town than I.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the weak, the halt, the improvident</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And those who could not pay flocked to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was good-hearted, easy Doctor Meyers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was healthy, happy, in comfortable fortune,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blest with a congenial mate, my children raised,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All wedded, doing well in the world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then one night, Minerva, the poetess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came to me in her trouble, crying.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I tried to help her out⁠—she died⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They indicted me, the newspapers disgraced me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My wife perished of a broken heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pneumonia finished me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-meyers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Meyers</h2>
				<p>
					<span>He protested all his life long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The newspapers lied about him villainously;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he was not at fault for Minerva’s fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But only tried to help her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor soul so sunk in sin he could not see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That even trying to help her, as he called it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had broken the law human and divine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passers by, an ancient admonition to you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If your ways would be ways of pleasantness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all your pathways peace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love God and keep his commandments.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="butch-weldy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">“Butch” Weldy</h2>
				<p>
					<span>After I got religion and steadied down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They gave me a job in the canning works,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every morning I had to fill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tank in the yard with gasoline,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That fed the blow-fires in the sheds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To heat the soldering irons.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I mounted a rickety ladder to do it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Carrying buckets full of the stuff.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One morning, as I stood there pouring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The air grew still and seemed to heave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I shot up as the tank exploded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And down I came with both legs broken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my eyes burned crisp as a couple of eggs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For someone left a blow⁠—fire going,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And something sucked the flame in the tank.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Circuit Judge said whoever did it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a fellow-servant of mine, and so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old Rhodes’ son didn’t have to pay me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I sat on the witness stand as blind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Jack the Fiddler, saying over and over,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I didn’t know him at all.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="knowlt-hoehiemer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Knowlt Hoheimer</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was the first fruits of the battle of Missionary Ridge.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I felt the bullet enter my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wished I had staid at home and gone to jail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For stealing the hogs of Curl Trenary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Instead of running away and joining the army.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rather a thousand times the county jail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than to lie under this marble figure with wings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this granite pedestal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bearing the words, “Pro Patria.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What do they mean, anyway?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lydia-puckett" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lydia Puckett</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Knowlt Hoheimer ran away to the war</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The day before Curl Trenary</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swore out a warrant through Justice Arnett</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For stealing hogs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that’s not the reason he turned a soldier.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He caught me running with Lucius Atherton.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We quarreled and I told him never again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cross my path.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then he stole the hogs and went to the war⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back of every soldier is a woman.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="frank-drummer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Frank Drummer</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Out of a cell into this darkened space⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The end at twenty-five!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My tongue could not speak what stirred within me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the village thought me a fool.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet at the start there was a clear vision,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A high and urgent purpose in my soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which drove me on trying to memorize</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Encyclopedia Britannica!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hare-drummer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hare Drummer</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Do the boys and girls still go to Siever’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For cider, after school, in late September?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or gather hazel nuts among the thickets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Aaron Hatfield’s farm when the frosts begin?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For many times with the laughing girls and boys</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Played I along the road and over the hills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the sun was low and the air was cool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stopping to club the walnut tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Standing leafless against a flaming west.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, the smell of the autumn smoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the dropping acorns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the echoes about the vales</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bring dreams of life. They hover over me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They question me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where are those laughing comrades?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How many are with me, how many</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the old orchards along the way to Siever’s,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the woods that overlook</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The quiet water?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="conrad-siever" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Conrad Siever</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Not in that wasted garden</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where bodies are drawn into grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That feeds no flocks, and into evergreens</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That bear no fruit⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There where along the shaded walks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vain sighs are heard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vainer dreams are dreamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of close communion with departed souls⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But here under the apple tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I loved and watched and pruned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gnarled hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the long, long years;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here under the roots of this northern-spy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To move in the chemic change and circle of life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the soil and into the flesh of the tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And into the living epitaphs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of redder apples!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="doc-hill" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Doc Hill</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I went up and down the streets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here and there by day and night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through all hours of the night caring for the poor who were sick.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you know why?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My wife hated me, my son went to the dogs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I turned to the people and poured out my love to them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet it was to see the crowds about the lawns on the day of my funeral,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hear them murmur their love and sorrow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But oh, dear God, my soul trembled⁠—scarcely able</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hold to the railing of the new life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I saw Em Stanton behind the oak tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hiding herself, and her grief!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="andy-the-night-watch" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Andy the Night-Watch</h2>
				<p>
					<span>In my Spanish cloak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And old slouch hat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And overshoes of felt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Tyke, my faithful dog,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my knotted hickory cane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I slipped about with a bull’s-eye lantern</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From door to door on the square,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the midnight stars wheeled round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the bell in the steeple murmured</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the blowing of the wind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the weary steps of old Doc Hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sounded like one who walks in sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a far-off rooster crew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now another is watching Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As others watched before me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here we lie, Doc Hill and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where none breaks through and steals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no eye needs to guard.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sarah-brown" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sarah Brown</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Maurice, weep not, I am not here under this pine tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The balmy air of spring whispers through the sweet grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stars sparkle, the whippoorwill calls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But thou grievest, while my soul lies rapturous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the blest Nirvana of eternal light!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go to the good heart that is my husband,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who broods upon what he calls our guilty love:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell him that my love for you, no less than my love for him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrought out my destiny⁠—that through the flesh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I won spirit, and through spirit, peace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is no marriage in heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there is love.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="percy-bysshe-shelley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Percy Bysshe Shelley</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My father who owned the wagon-shop</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And grew rich shoeing horses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sent me to the University of Montreal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I learned nothing and returned home,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roaming the fields with Bert Kessler,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hunting quail and snipe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At Thompson’s Lake the trigger of my gun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caught in the side of the boat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a great hole was shot through my heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over me a fond father erected this marble shaft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On which stands the figure of a woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Carved by an Italian artist.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say the ashes of my namesake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were scattered near the pyramid of Caius Cestius</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somewhere near Rome.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="flossie-cabanis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Flossie Cabanis</h2>
				<p>
					<span>From Bindle’s opera house in the village</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Broadway is a great step.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I tried to take it, my ambition fired</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When sixteen years of age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing “East Lynne,” played here in the village</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Ralph Barrett, the coming</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Romantic actor, who enthralled my soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>True, I trailed back home, a broken failure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Ralph disappeared in New York,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving me alone in the city⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But life broke him also.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all this place of silence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There are no kindred spirits.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How I wish Duse could stand amid the pathos</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of these quiet fields</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And read these words.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="julia-miller" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Julia Miller</h2>
				<p>
					<span>We quarreled that morning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he was sixty-five, and I was thirty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was nervous and heavy with the child</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose birth I dreaded.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought over the last letter written me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By that estranged young soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose betrayal of me I had concealed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By marrying the old man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I took morphine and sat down to read.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the blackness that came over my eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see the flickering light of these words even now:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And Jesus said unto him, Verily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I say unto thee, To-day thou shalt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be with me in paradise.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="johnnie-sayre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Johnnie Sayre</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Father, thou canst never know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The anguish that smote my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my disobedience, the moment I felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The remorseless wheel of the engine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sink into the crying flesh of my leg.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As they carried me to the home of widow Morris</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could see the school-house in the valley</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To which I played truant to steal rides upon the trains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I prayed to live until I could ask your forgiveness⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then your tears, your broken words of comfort!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the solace of that hour I have gained infinite happiness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou wert wise to chisel for me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Taken from the evil to come.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="charlie-french" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Charlie French</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Did you ever find out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which one of the O’Brien boys it was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who snapped the toy pistol against my hand?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There when the flags were red and white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the breeze and “Bucky” Estil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was firing the cannon brought to Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Vicksburg by Captain Harris;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lemonade stands were running</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the band was playing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have it all spoiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By a piece of a cap shot under the skin of my hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the boys all crowding about me saying:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You’ll die of lock-jaw, Charlie, sure.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, dear! oh, dear!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What chum of mine could have done it?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="zenas-witt" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Zenas Witt</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was sixteen, and I had the most terrible dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And specks before my eyes, and nervous weakness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I couldn’t remember the books I read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Frank Drummer who memorized page after page.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my back was weak, and I worried and worried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was embarrassed and stammered my lessons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I stood up to recite I’d forget</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Everything that I had studied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, I saw <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Weese’s advertisement,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there I read everything in print,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just as if he had known me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And about the dreams which I couldn’t help.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I knew I was marked for an early grave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I worried until I had a cough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the dreams stopped.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then I slept the sleep without dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here on the hill by the river.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="theodore-the-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Theodore the Poet</h2>
				<p>
					<span>As a boy, Theodore, you sat for long hours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the shore of the turbid Spoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With deep-set eye staring at the door of the crawfish’s burrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waiting for him to appear, pushing ahead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First his waving antennae, like straws of hay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And soon his body, colored like soap-stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gemmed with eyes of jet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you wondered in a trance of thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What he knew, what he desired, and why he lived at all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But later your vision watched for men and women</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hiding in burrows of fate amid great cities,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looking for the souls of them to come out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that you could see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How they lived, and for what,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why they kept crawling so busily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the sandy way where water fails</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the summer wanes.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-town-marshal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Town Marshal</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The Prohibitionists made me Town Marshal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the saloons were voted out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because when I was a drinking man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before I joined the church, I killed a Swede</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the saw-mill near Maple Grove.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they wanted a terrible man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim, righteous, strong, courageous,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a hater of saloons and drinkers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To keep law and order in the village.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they presented me with a loaded cane</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With which I struck Jack McGuire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before he drew the gun with which he killed me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Prohibitionists spent their money in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hang him, for in a dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I appeared to one of the twelve jurymen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And told him the whole secret story.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fourteen years were enough for killing me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jack-mcguire" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jack McGuire</h2>
				<p>
					<span>They would have lynched me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had I not been secretly hurried away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the jail at Peoria.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet I was going peacefully home,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Carrying my jug, a little drunk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Logan, the marshal, halted me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Called me a drunken hound and shook me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, when I cursed him for it, struck me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With that Prohibition loaded cane⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All this before I shot him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They would have hanged me except for this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My lawyer, Kinsey Keene, was helping to land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old Thomas Rhodes for wrecking the bank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the judge was a friend of Rhodes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wanted him to escape,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Kinsey offered to quit on Rhodes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For fourteen years for me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the bargain was made. I served my time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And learned to read and write.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dorcas-gustine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dorcas Gustine</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was not beloved of the villagers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all because I spoke my mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And met those who transgressed against me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With plain remonstrance, hiding nor nurturing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor secret griefs nor grudges.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That act of the Spartan boy is greatly praised,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who hid the wolf under his cloak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Letting it devour him, uncomplainingly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is braver, I think, to snatch the wolf forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fight him openly, even in the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid dust and howls of pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tongue may be an unruly member⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But silence poisons the soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Berate me who will⁠—I am content.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="nicholas-bindle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Nicholas Bindle</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Were you not ashamed, fellow citizens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When my estate was probated and everyone knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How small a fortune I left?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You who hounded me in life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give, give, give to the churches, to the poor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the village!⁠—me who had already given much.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And think you not I did not know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the pipe-organ, which I gave to the church,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Played its christening songs when Deacon Rhodes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who broke and all but ruined me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Worshipped for the first time after his acquittal?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jacob-goodpasture" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jacob Goodpasture</h2>
				<p>
					<span>When Fort Sumter fell and the war came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cried out in bitterness of soul:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O glorious republic now no more!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they buried my soldier son</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the call of trumpets and the sound of drums</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart broke beneath the weight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of eighty years, and I cried:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Oh, son who died in a cause unjust!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the strife of Freedom slain!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I crept here under the grass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now from the battlements of time, behold:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrice thirty million souls being bound together</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the love of larger truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rapt in the expectation of the birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a new Beauty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprung from Brotherhood and Wisdom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I with eyes of spirit see the Transfiguration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before you see it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ye infinite brood of golden eagles nesting ever higher,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wheeling ever higher, the sunlight wooing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of lofty places of Thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgive the blindness of the departed owl.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="harold-arnett" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Harold Arnett</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I leaned against the mantel, sick, sick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking of my failure, looking into the abysm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weak from the noon-day heat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A church bell sounded mournfully far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard the cry of a baby,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the coughing of John Yarnell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bed-ridden, feverish, feverish, dying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the violent voice of my wife:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Watch out, the potatoes are burning!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I smelled them⁠ ⁠… then there was irresistible disgust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pulled the trigger⁠ ⁠… blackness⁠ ⁠… light⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unspeakable regret⁠ ⁠… fumbling for the world again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too late! Thus I came here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With lungs for breathing⁠ ⁠… one cannot breathe here with lungs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though one must breathe⁠ ⁠… Of what use is it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To rid one’s self of the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When no soul may ever escape the eternal destiny of life?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="margaret-fuller-slack" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Margaret Fuller Slack</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I would have been as great as George Eliot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But for an untoward fate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For look at the photograph of me made by Penniwit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chin resting on hand, and deep-set eyes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gray, too, and far-searching.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there was the old, old problem:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should it be celibacy, matrimony or unchastity?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then John Slack, the rich druggist, wooed me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Luring me with the promise of leisure for my novel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I married him, giving birth to eight children,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And had no time to write.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was all over with me, anyway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I ran the needle in my hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While washing the baby’s things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And died from lock-jaw, an ironical death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear me, ambitious souls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sex is the curse of life.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="george-trimble" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">George Trimble</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Do you remember when I stood on the steps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Court House and talked free-silver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the single-tax of Henry George?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then do you remember that, when the Peerless Leader</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lost the first battle, I began to talk prohibition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And became active in the church?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was due to my wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who pictured to me my destruction</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I did not prove my morality to the people.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, she ruined me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the radicals grew suspicious of me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the conservatives were never sure of me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here I lie, unwept of all.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dr-siegfried-iseman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Dr.</abbr> Siegfried Iseman</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I said when they handed me my diploma,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said to myself I will be good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wise and brave and helpful to others;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said I will carry the Christian creed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the practice of medicine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somehow the world and the other doctors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know what’s in your heart as soon as you make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This high-souled resolution.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the way of it is they starve you out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no one comes to you but the poor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you find too late that being a doctor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is just a way of making a living.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when you are poor and have to carry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Christian creed and wife and children</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All on your back, it is too much!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s why I made the Elixir of Youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which landed me in the jail at Peoria</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Branded a swindler and a crook</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the upright Federal Judge!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ace-shaw" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">“Ace” Shaw</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I never saw any difference</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between playing cards for money</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And selling real estate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Practicing law, banking, or anything else.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For everything is chance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nevertheless</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seest thou a man diligent in business?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shall stand before Kings!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lois-spears" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lois Spears</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies the body of Lois Spears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Born Lois Fluke, daughter of Willard Fluke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wife of Cyrus Spears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mother of Myrtle and Virgil Spears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Children with clear eyes and sound limbs⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I was born blind)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was the happiest of women</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As wife, mother and housekeeper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caring for my loved ones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And making my home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A place of order and bounteous hospitality:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I went about the rooms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And about the garden</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an instinct as sure as sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As though there were eyes in my finger tips⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glory to God in the highest.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="justice-arnett" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Justice Arnett</h2>
				<p>
					<span>It is true, fellow citizens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That my old docket lying there for years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a shelf above my head and over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The seat of justice, I say it is true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That docket had an iron rim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which gashed my baldness when it fell⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Somehow I think it was shaken loose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the heave of the air all over town</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the gasoline tank at the canning works</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blew up and burned Butch Weldy)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But let us argue points in order,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reason the whole case carefully:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First I concede my head was cut,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But second the frightful thing was this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The leaves of the docket shot and showered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around me like a deck of cards</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the hands of a sleight of hand performer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And up to the end I saw those leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I said at last, “Those are not leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, can’t you see they are days and days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the days and days of seventy years?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why do you torture me with leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the little entries on them?”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="willard-fluke" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Willard Fluke</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My wife lost her health,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dwindled until she weighed scarce ninety pounds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then that woman, whom the men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Styled Cleopatra, came along.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we⁠—we married ones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All broke our vows, myself among the rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Years passed and one by one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death claimed them all in some hideous form,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was borne along by dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of God’s particular grace for me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I began to write, write, write, reams on reams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the second coming of Christ.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Christ came to me and said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Go into the church and stand before the congregation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And confess your sin.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But just as I stood up and began to speak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw my little girl, who was sitting in the front seat⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My little girl who was born blind!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After that, all is blackness!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="aner-clute" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Aner Clute</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Over and over they used to ask me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While buying the wine or the beer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Peoria first, and later in Chicago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Denver, Frisco, New York, wherever I lived,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How I happened to lead the life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what was the start of it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, I told them a silk dress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a promise of marriage from a rich man⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(It was Lucius Atherton).</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that was not really it at all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suppose a boy steals an apple</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the tray at the grocery store,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they all begin to call him a thief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The editor, minister, judge, and all the people⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“A thief,” “a thief,” “a thief,” wherever he goes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he can’t get work, and he can’t get bread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without stealing it, why, the boy will steal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s the way the people regard the theft of the apple</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That makes the boy what he is.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lucius-atherton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lucius Atherton</h2>
				<p>
					<span>When my moustache curled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my hair was black,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I wore tight trousers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a diamond stud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was an excellent knave of hearts and took many a trick.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when the gray hairs began to appear⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! a new generation of girls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laughed at me, not fearing me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I had no more exciting adventures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein I was all but shot for a heartless devil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But only drabby affairs, warmed-over affairs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of other days and other men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And time went on until I lived at Mayer’s restaurant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Partaking of short-orders, a gray, untidy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toothless, discarded, rural Don Juan⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is a mighty shade here who sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of one named Beatrice;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I see now that the force that made him great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drove me to the dregs of life.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="homer-clapp" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Homer Clapp</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Often Aner Clute at the gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Refused me the parting kiss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saying we should be engaged before that;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And just with a distant clasp of the hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She bade me good-night, as I brought her home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the skating rink or the revival.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No sooner did my departing footsteps die away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than Lucius Atherton,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(So I learned when Aner went to Peoria)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stole in at her window, or took her riding</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind his spanking team of bays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the country.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shock of it made me settle down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I put all the money I got from my father’s estate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the canning factory, to get the job</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of head accountant, and lost it all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then I knew I was one of Life’s fools,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom only death would treat as the equal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of other men, making me feel like a man.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="deacon-taylor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Deacon Taylor</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I belonged to the church,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to the party of prohibition;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the villagers thought I died of eating watermelon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In truth I had cirrhosis of the liver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For every noon for thirty years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I slipped behind the prescription partition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Trainor’s drug store</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And poured a generous drink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the bottle marked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Spiritus frumenti.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sam-hookey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sam Hookey</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I ran away from home with the circus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Having fallen in love with Mademoiselle Estralada,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lion tamer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One time, having starved the lions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For more than a day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I entered the cage and began to beat Brutus</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Leo and Gypsy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereupon Brutus sprang upon me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And killed me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On entering these regions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I met a shadow who cursed me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said it served me right⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was Robespierre!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="cooney-potter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Cooney Potter</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I inherited forty acres from my Father</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, by working my wife, my two sons and two daughters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From dawn to dusk, I acquired</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand acres. But not content,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wishing to own two thousand acres,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I bustled through the years with axe and plow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toiling, denying myself, my wife, my sons, my daughters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Squire Higbee wrongs me to say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I died from smoking Red Eagle cigars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eating hot pie and gulping coffee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>During the scorching hours of harvest time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brought me here ere I had reached my sixtieth year.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fiddler-jones" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Fiddler Jones</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The earth keeps some vibration going</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There in your heart, and that is you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if the people find you can fiddle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, fiddle you must, for all your life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What do you see, a harvest of clover?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or a meadow to walk through to the river?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind’s in the corn; you rub your hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For beeves hereafter ready for market;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or else you hear the rustle of skirts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the girls when dancing at Little Grove.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Cooney Potter a pillar of dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or whirling leaves meant ruinous drouth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They looked to me like Red-Head Sammy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stepping it off, to “Toor-a-Loor.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How could I till my forty acres</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not to speak of getting more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a medley of horns, bassoons and piccolos</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stirred in my brain by crows and robins</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the creak of a wind-mill⁠—only these?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I never started to plow in my life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That some one did not stop in the road</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And take me away to a dance or picnic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ended up with forty acres;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ended up with a broken fiddle⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a broken laugh, and a thousand memories,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not a single regret.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="nellie-clark" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Nellie Clark</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was only eight years old;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And before I grew up and knew what it meant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had no words for it, except</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I was frightened and told my Mother;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that my Father got a pistol</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And would have killed Charlie, who was a big boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fifteen years old, except for his Mother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nevertheless the story clung to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the man who married me, a widower of thirty-five,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a newcomer and never heard it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till two years after we were married.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then he considered himself cheated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the village agreed that I was not really a virgin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, he deserted me, and I died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The following winter.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="louise-smith" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Louise Smith</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Herbert broke our engagement of eight years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Annabelle returned to the village</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the Seminary, ah me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I had let my love for him alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It might have grown into a beautiful sorrow⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knows?⁠—filling my life with healing fragrance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I tortured it, I poisoned it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I blinded its eyes, and it became hatred⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deadly ivy instead of clematis.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my soul fell from its support,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its tendrils tangled in decay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do not let the will play gardener to your soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless you are sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is wiser than your soul’s nature.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="herbert-marshall" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Herbert Marshall</h2>
				<p>
					<span>All your sorrow, Louise, and hatred of me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang from your delusion that it was wantonness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of spirit and contempt of your soul’s rights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which made me turn to Annabelle and forsake you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You really grew to hate me for love of me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because I was your soul’s happiness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Formed and tempered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To solve your life for you, and would not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you were my misery. If you had been</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My happiness would I not have clung to you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is life’s sorrow:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That one can be happy only where two are;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that our hearts are drawn to stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which want us not.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="george-gray" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">George Gray</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I have studied many times</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The marble which was chiseled for me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A boat with a furled sail at rest in a harbor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In truth it pictures not my destination</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For love was offered me and I shrank from its disillusionment;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sorrow knocked at my door, but I was afraid;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ambition called to me, but I dreaded the chances.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet all the while I hungered for meaning in my life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now I know that we must lift the sail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And catch the winds of destiny</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherever they drive the boat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To put meaning in one’s life may end in madness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But life without meaning is the torture</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of restlessness and vague desire⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a boat longing for the sea and yet afraid.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hon-henry-bennett" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Hon.</abbr> Henry Bennett</h2>
				<p>
					<span>It never came into my mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until I was ready to die</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Jenny had loved me to death, with malice of heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I was seventy, she was thirty-five,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I wore myself to a shadow trying to husband</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jenny, rosy Jenny full of the ardor of life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all my wisdom and grace of mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gave her no delight at all, in very truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ever and anon she spoke of the giant strength</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Willard Shafer, and of his wonderful feat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of lifting a traction engine out of the ditch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One time at Georgie Kirby’s.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Jenny inherited my fortune and married Willard⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mount of brawn! That clownish soul!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="griffy-the-cooper" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Griffy the Cooper</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The cooper should know about tubs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I learned about life as well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you who loiter around these graves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Think you know life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You think your eye sweeps about a wide horizon, perhaps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In truth you are only looking around the interior of your tub.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cannot lift yourself to its rim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And see the outer world of things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at the same time see yourself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are submerged in the tub of yourself⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taboos and rules and appearances,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are the staves of your tub.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Break them and dispel the witchcraft</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of thinking your tub is life!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that you know life!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sexsmith-the-dentist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sexsmith the Dentist</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Do you think that odes and sermons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the ringing of church bells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the blood of old men and young men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Martyred for the truth they saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With eyes made bright by faith in God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Accomplished the world’s great reformations?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you think that the Battle Hymn of the Republic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would have been heard if the chattel slave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had crowned the dominant dollar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In spite of Whitney’s cotton gin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And steam and rolling mills and iron</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And telegraphs and white free labor?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you think that Daisy Fraser</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had been put out and driven out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If the canning works had never needed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her little house and lot?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or do you think the poker room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Johnnie Taylor, and Burchard’s bar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had been closed up if the money lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spent for beer had not been turned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By closing them, to Thomas Rhodes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For larger sales of shoes and blankets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And children’s cloaks and gold-oak cradles?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, a moral truth is a hollow tooth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which must be propped with gold.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-d-blood" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. D.</abbr> Blood</h2>
				<p>
					<span>If you in the village think that my work was a good one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who closed the saloons and stopped all playing at cards,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And haled old Daisy Fraser before Justice Arnett,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In many a crusade to purge the people of sin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why do you let the milliner’s daughter Dora,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the worthless son of Benjamin Pantier,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nightly make my grave their unholy pillow?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="robert-southey-burke" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Robert Southey Burke</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I spent my money trying to elect you Mayor</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. D.</abbr> Blood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I lavished my admiration upon you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were to my mind the almost perfect man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You devoured my personality,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the idealism of my youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the strength of a high-souled fealty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all my hopes for the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all my beliefs in Truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were smelted up in the blinding heat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of my devotion to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And molded into your image.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then when I found what you were:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That your soul was small</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your words were false</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As your blue-white porcelain teeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your cuffs of celluloid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hated the love I had for you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hated myself, I hated you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my wasted soul, and wasted youth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I say to all, beware of ideals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beware of giving your love away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To any man alive.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dora-williams" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dora Williams</h2>
				<p>
					<span>When Reuben Pantier ran away and threw me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I went to Springfield. There I met a lush,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose father just deceased left him a fortune.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He married me when drunk. My life was wretched.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A year passed and one day they found him dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That made me rich. I moved on to Chicago.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After a time met Tyler Rountree, villain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I moved on to New York. A gray-haired magnate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went mad about me⁠—so another fortune.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He died one night right in my arms, you know.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I saw his purple face for years thereafter.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was almost a scandal. I moved on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This time to Paris. I was now a woman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Insidious, subtle, versed in the world and rich.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My sweet apartment near the Champs Elysees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Became a center for all sorts of people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Musicians, poets, dandies, artists, nobles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where we spoke French and German, Italian, English.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wed Count Navigato, native of Genoa.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We went to Rome. He poisoned me, I think.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now in the Campo Santo overlooking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sea where young Columbus dreamed new worlds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See what they chiseled: “<i xml:lang="it">Contessa Navigato</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="it">Implora eterna quiete</i>.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-williams" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Williams</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was the milliner</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Talked about, lied about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mother of Dora,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose strange disappearance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was charged to her rearing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My eye quick to beauty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw much beside ribbons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And buckles and feathers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leghorns and felts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To set off sweet faces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dark hair and gold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One thing I will tell you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one I will ask:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stealers of husbands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wear powder and trinkets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fashionable hats.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wives, wear them yourselves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hats may make divorces⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They also prevent them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well now, let me ask you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If all of the children, born here in Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had been reared by the County, somewhere on a farm;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fathers and mothers had been given their freedom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To live and enjoy, change mates if they wished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you think that Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had been any the worse?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="william-and-emily" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">William and Emily</h2>
				<p>
					<span>There is something about Death</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like love itself!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If with some one with whom you have known passion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the glow of youthful love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You also, after years of life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Together, feel the sinking of the fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thus fade away together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gradually, faintly, delicately,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As it were in each other’s arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passing from the familiar room⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is a power of unison between souls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like love itself!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-circuit-judge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Circuit Judge</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Take note, passers-by, of the sharp erosions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eaten in my headstone by the wind and rain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Almost as if an intangible Nemesis or hatred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were marking scores against me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But to destroy, and not preserve, my memory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I in life was the Circuit Judge, a maker of notches,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deciding cases on the points the lawyers scored,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not on the right of the matter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O wind and rain, leave my headstone alone!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For worse than the anger of the wronged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The curses of the poor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was to lie speechless, yet with vision clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing that even Hod Putt, the murderer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hanged by my sentence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was innocent in soul compared with me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="blind-jack" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Blind Jack</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I had fiddled all day at the county fair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But driving home “Butch” Weldy and Jack McGuire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who were roaring full, made me fiddle and fiddle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the song of “Susie Skinner,” while whipping the horses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till they ran away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blind as I was, I tried to get out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the carriage fell in the ditch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was caught in the wheels and killed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s a blind man here with a brow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As big and white as a cloud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all we fiddlers, from highest to lowest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Writers of music and tellers of stories,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sit at his feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hear him sing of the fall of Troy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="john-horace-burleson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">John Horace Burleson</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I won the prize essay at school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here in the village,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And published a novel before I was twenty-five.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I went to the city for themes and to enrich my art;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There married the banker’s daughter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And later became president of the bank⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Always looking forward to some leisure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To write an epic novel of the war.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile friend of the great, and lover of letters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And host to Matthew Arnold and to Emerson.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An after dinner speaker, writing essays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For local clubs. At last brought here⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My boyhood home, you know⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not even a little tablet in Chicago</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To keep my name alive.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How great it is to write the single line:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Roll on, thou deep and dark blue Ocean, roll!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="nancy-knapp" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Nancy Knapp</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Well, don’t you see this was the way of it:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We bought the farm with what he inherited,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his brothers and sisters accused him of poisoning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His father’s mind against the rest of them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we never had any peace with our treasure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The murrain took the cattle, and the crops failed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lightning struck the granary.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So we mortgaged the farm to keep going.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he grew silent and was worried all the time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then some of the neighbors refused to speak to us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And took sides with his brothers and sisters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I had no place to turn, as one may say to himself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At an earlier time in life; “No matter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So and so is my friend, or I can shake this off</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a little trip to Decatur.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the dreadfullest smells infested the rooms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I set fire to the beds and the old witch-house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went up in a roar of flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I danced in the yard with waving arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While he wept like a freezing steer.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="barry-holden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Barry Holden</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The very fall my sister Nancy Knapp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Set fire to the house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were trying <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Duval</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the murder of Zora Clemens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I sat in the court two weeks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Listening to every witness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was clear he had got her in a family way;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to let the child be born</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would not do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, how about me with eight children,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one coming, and the farm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mortgaged to Thomas Rhodes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I got home that night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(After listening to the story of the buggy ride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the finding of Zora in the ditch,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The first thing I saw, right there by the steps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the boys had hacked for angle worms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was the hatchet!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And just as I entered there was my wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Standing before me, big with child.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She started the talk of the mortgaged farm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I killed her.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="states-attorney-fallas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">State’s Attorney Fallas</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I, the scourge-wielder, balance-wrecker,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smiter with whips and swords;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, hater of the breakers of the law;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, legalist, inexorable and bitter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Driving the jury to hang the madman, Barry Holden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was made as one dead by light too bright for eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And woke to face a Truth with bloody brow:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steel forceps fumbled by a doctor’s hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against my boy’s head as he entered life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made him an idiot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I turned to books of science</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To care for him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s how the world of those whose minds are sick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Became my work in life, and all my world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor ruined boy! You were, at last, the potter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I and all my deeds of charity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vessels of your hand.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="wendell-p-bloyd" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Wendell P. Bloyd</h2>
				<p>
					<span>They first charged me with disorderly conduct,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There being no statute on blasphemy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Later they locked me up as insane</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I was beaten to death by a Catholic guard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My offense was this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said God lied to Adam, and destined him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lead the life of a fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ignorant that there is evil in the world as well as good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when Adam outwitted God by eating the apple</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw through the lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God drove him out of Eden to keep him from taking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fruit of immortal life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Christ’s sake, you sensible people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here’s what God Himself says about it in the book of Genesis:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And the Lord God said, behold the man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is become as one of us” (a little envy, you see),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“To know good and evil” (The all-is-good lie exposed):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And now lest he put forth his hand and take</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Also of the tree of life and eat, and live forever:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therefore the Lord God sent Him forth from the garden of Eden.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The reason I believe God crucified His Own Son</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get out of the wretched tangle is, because it sounds just like Him.)</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="francis-turner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Francis Turner</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I could not run or play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In boyhood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In manhood I could only sip the cup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not drink⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For scarlet-fever left my heart diseased.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet I lie here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soothed by a secret none but Mary knows:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is a garden of acacia,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Catalpa trees, and arbors sweet with vines⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There on that afternoon in June</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Mary’s side⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kissing her with my soul upon my lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It suddenly took flight.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="franklin-jones" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Franklin Jones</h2>
				<p>
					<span>If I could have lived another year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could have finished my flying machine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And become rich and famous.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hence it is fitting the workman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who tried to chisel a dove for me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made it look more like a chicken.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what is it all but being hatched,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And running about the yard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the day of the block?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save that a man has an angel’s brain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sees the ax from the first!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="john-m-church" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">John M. Church</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was attorney for the “Q”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Indemnity Company which insured</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The owners of the mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pulled the wires with judge and jury,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the upper courts, to beat the claims</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the crippled, the widow and orphan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made a fortune thereat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bar association sang my praises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a high-flown resolution.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the floral tributes were many⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the rats devoured my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a snake made a nest in my skull!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="russian-sonia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Russian Sonia</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I, born in Weimar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a mother who was French</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And German father, a most learned professor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Orphaned at fourteen years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Became a dancer, known as Russian Sonia,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All up and down the boulevards of Paris,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mistress betimes of sundry dukes and counts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And later of poor artists and of poets.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At forty years, passee, I sought New York</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And met old Patrick Hummer on the boat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red-faced and hale, though turned his sixtieth year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Returning after having sold a ship-load</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of cattle in the German city, Hamburg.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He brought me to Spoon River and we lived here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For twenty years⁠—they thought that we were married!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This oak tree near me is the favorite haunt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of blue jays chattering, chattering all the day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why not? for my very dust is laughing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For thinking of the humorous thing called life.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="isa-nutter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Isa Nutter</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Doc Meyers said I had satyriasis,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Doc Hill called it leucaemia⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I know what brought me here:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was sixty-four but strong as a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of thirty-five or forty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it wasn’t writing a letter a day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it wasn’t late hours seven nights a week,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it wasn’t the strain of thinking of Minnie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it wasn’t fear or a jealous dread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or the endless task of trying to fathom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her wonderful mind, or sympathy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the wretched life she led</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With her first and second husband⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was none of these that laid me low⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the clamor of daughters and threats of sons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sneers and curses of all my kin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Right up to the day I sneaked to Peoria</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And married Minnie in spite of them⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why do you wonder my will was made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the best and purest of women?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="barney-hainsfeather" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Barney Hainsfeather</h2>
				<p>
					<span>If the excursion train to Peoria</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had just been wrecked, I might have escaped with my life⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Certainly I should have escaped this place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But as it was burned as well, they mistook me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For John Allen who was sent to the Hebrew Cemetery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At Chicago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And John for me, so I lie here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was bad enough to run a clothing store in this town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But to be buried here⁠—<em>ach</em>!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="petit-the-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Petit, the Poet</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Seeds in a dry pod, tick, tick, tick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tick, tick, tick, like mites in a quarrel⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faint iambics that the full breeze wakens⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the pine tree makes a symphony thereof.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Triolets, villanelles, rondels, rondeaus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ballades by the score with the same old thought:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The snows and the roses of yesterday are vanished;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what is love but a rose that fades?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Life all around me here in the village:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tragedy, comedy, valor and truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Courage, constancy, heroism, failure⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All in the loom, and oh what patterns!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Woodlands, meadows, streams and rivers⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blind to all of it all my life long.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Triolets, villanelles, rondels, rondeaus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeds in a dry pod, tick, tick, tick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tick, tick, tick, what little iambics,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While Homer and Whitman roared in the pines?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="pauline-barrett" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Pauline Barrett</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Almost the shell of a woman after the surgeon’s knife!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And almost a year to creep back into strength,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the dawn of our wedding decennial</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Found me my seeming self again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We walked the forest together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By a path of soundless moss and turf.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I could not look in your eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you could not look in my eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For such sorrow was ours⁠—the beginning of gray in your hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I but a shell of myself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what did we talk of?⁠—sky and water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anything, ’most, to hide our thoughts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then your gift of wild roses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Set on the table to grace our dinner.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor heart, how bravely you struggled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To imagine and live a remembered rapture!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then my spirit drooped as the night came on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you left me alone in my room for a while,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As you did when I was a bride, poor heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I looked in the mirror and something said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“One should be all dead when one is half-dead⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ever mock life, nor ever cheat love.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I did it looking there in the mirror⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear, have you ever understood?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-charles-bliss" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Charles Bliss</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Reverend Wiley advised me not to divorce him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the sake of the children,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Judge Somers advised him the same.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So we stuck to the end of the path.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But two of the children thought he was right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And two of the children thought I was right.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the two who sided with him blamed me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the two who sided with me blamed him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they grieved for the one they sided with.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all were torn with the guilt of judging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tortured in soul because they could not admire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Equally him and me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now every gardener knows that plants grown in cellars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or under stones are twisted and yellow and weak.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no mother would let her baby suck</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Diseased milk from her breast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet preachers and judges advise the raising of souls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where there is no sunlight, but only twilight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No warmth, but only dampness and cold⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Preachers and judges!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-george-reece" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> George Reece</h2>
				<p>
					<span>To this generation I would say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Memorize some bit of verse of truth or beauty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It may serve a turn in your life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My husband had nothing to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the fall of the bank⁠—he was only cashier.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wreck was due to the president, Thomas Rhodes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his vain, unscrupulous son.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet my husband was sent to prison,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was left with the children,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To feed and clothe and school them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I did it, and sent them forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the world all clean and strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all through the wisdom of Pope, the poet:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Act well your part, there all the honor lies.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rev-lemuel-wiley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Rev.</abbr> Lemuel Wiley</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I preached four thousand sermons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I conducted forty revivals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And baptized many converts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet no deed of mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shines brighter in the memory of the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And none is treasured more by me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look how I saved the Blisses from divorce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And kept the children free from that disgrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To grow up into moral men and women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Happy themselves, a credit to the village.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thomas-ross-jr" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Thomas Ross, <abbr class="eoc">Jr.</abbr></h2>
				<p>
					<span>This I saw with my own eyes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cliff-swallow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made her nest in a hole of the high clay-bank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There near Miller’s Ford.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But no sooner were the young hatched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than a snake crawled up to the nest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To devour the brood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the mother swallow with swift flutterings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shrill cries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fought at the snake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blinding him with the beat of her wings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until he, wriggling and rearing his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell backward down the bank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into Spoon River and was drowned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scarcely an hour passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until a shrike</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Impaled the mother swallow on a thorn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As for myself I overcame my lower nature</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only to be destroyed by my brother’s ambition.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rev-abner-peet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Rev.</abbr> Abner Peet</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I had no objection at all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To selling my household effects at auction</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the village square.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It gave my beloved flock the chance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get something which had belonged to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a memorial.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that trunk which was struck off</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Burchard, the grog-keeper!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did you know it contained the manuscripts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a lifetime of sermons?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he burned them as waste paper.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jefferson-howard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jefferson Howard</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My valiant fight! For I call it valiant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my father’s beliefs from old Virginia:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hating slavery, but no less war.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, full of spirit, audacity, courage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrown into life here in Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its dominant forces drawn from New England,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Republicans, Calvinists, merchants, bankers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hating me, yet fearing my arm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With wife and children heavy to carry⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet fruits of my very zest of life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stealing odd pleasures that cost me prestige,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reaping evils I had not sown;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foe of the church with its charnel dankness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Friend of the human touch of the tavern;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tangled with fates all alien to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deserted by hands I called my own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then just as I felt my giant strength</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Short of breath, behold my children</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had wound their lives in stranger gardens⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I stood alone, as I started alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My valiant life! I died on my feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Facing the silence⁠—facing the prospect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That no one would know of the fight I made.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judge-selah-lively" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Judge Selah Lively</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Suppose you stood just five feet two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And had worked your way as a grocery clerk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Studying law by candle light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until you became an attorney at law?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then suppose through your diligence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And regular church attendance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You became attorney for Thomas Rhodes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Collecting notes and mortgages,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And representing all the widows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the Probate Court? And through it all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They jeered at your size, and laughed at your clothes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your polished boots? And then suppose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You became the County Judge?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Jefferson Howard and Kinsey Keene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Harmon Whitney, and all the giants</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who had sneered at you, were forced to stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the bar and say “Your Honor”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, don’t you think it was natural</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I made it hard for them?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="albert-schirding" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Albert Schirding</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Jonas Keene thought his lot a hard one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because his children were all failures.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I know of a fate more trying than that:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is to be a failure while your children are successes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I raised a brood of eagles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who flew away at last, leaving me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A crow on the abandoned bough.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, with the ambition to prefix Honorable to my name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thus to win my children’s admiration,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ran for County Superintendent of Schools,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spending my accumulations to win⁠—and lost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That fall my daughter received first prize in Paris</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For her picture, entitled, “The Old Mill”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(It was of the water mill before Henry Wilkin put in steam.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The feeling that I was not worthy of her finished me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jonas-keene" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jonas Keene</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Why did Albert Schirding kill himself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trying to be County Superintendent of Schools,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blest as he was with the means of life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wonderful children, bringing him honor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere he was sixty?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If even one of my boys could have run a news-stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or one of my girls could have married a decent man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I should not have walked in the rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And jumped into bed with clothes all wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Refusing medical aid.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="eugenia-todd" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Eugenia Todd</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Have any of you, passers-by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had an old tooth that was an unceasing discomfort?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or a pain in the side that never quite left you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or a malignant growth that grew with time?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that even in profoundest slumber</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was shadowy consciousness or the phantom of thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the tooth, the side, the growth?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even so thwarted love, or defeated ambition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or a blunder in life which mixed your life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hopelessly to the end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will like a tooth, or a pain in the side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Float through your dreams in the final sleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till perfect freedom from the earth-sphere</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comes to you as one who wakes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Healed and glad in the morning!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="yee-bow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Yee Bow</h2>
				<p>
					<span>They got me into the Sunday school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tried to get me to drop Confucius for Jesus.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could have been no worse off</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I had tried to get them to drop Jesus for Confucius.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For, without any warning, as if it were a prank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sneaking up behind me, Harry Wiley,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minister’s son, caved my ribs into my lungs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a blow of his fist.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I shall never sleep with my ancestors in Pekin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no children shall worship at my grave.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="washington-mcneely" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Washington McNeely</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Rich, honored by my fellow citizens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The father of many children, born of a noble mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All raised there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the great mansion-house, at the edge of town.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Note the cedar tree on the lawn!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sent all the boys to Ann Arbor, all of the girls to Rockford,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The while my life went on, getting more riches and honors⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resting under my cedar tree at evening.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The years went on. I sent the girls to Europe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I dowered them when married.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I gave the boys money to start in business.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were strong children, promising as apples</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the bitten places show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But John fled the country in disgrace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jenny died in child-birth⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat under my cedar tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Harry killed himself after a debauch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Susan was divorced⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat under my cedar tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul was invalided from over study,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mary became a recluse at home for love of a man⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat under my cedar tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All were gone, or broken-winged or devoured by life⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat under my cedar tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My mate, the mother of them, was taken⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat under my cedar tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till ninety years were tolled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O maternal Earth, which rocks the fallen leaf to sleep!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="paul-mcneely" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Paul McNeely</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Jane! dear winsome Jane!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How you stole in the room (where I lay so ill)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your nurse’s cap and linen cuffs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And took my hand and said with a smile:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You are not so ill⁠—you’ll soon be well.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how the liquid thought of your eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank in my eyes like dew that slips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the heart of a flower.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear Jane! the whole McNeely fortune</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could not have bought your care of me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By day and night, and night and day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor paid for you smile, nor the warmth of your soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your little hands laid on my brow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jane, till the flame of life went out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the dark above the disk of night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I longed and hoped to be well again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pillow my head on your little breasts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hold you fast in a clasp of love⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did my father provide for you when he died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jane, dear Jane?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mary-mcneely" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Mary McNeely</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Passer-by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To love is to find your own soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the soul of the beloved one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the beloved one withdraws itself from your soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then you have lost your soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is written: “I have a friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my sorrow has no friend.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hence my long years of solitude at the home of my father,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trying to get myself back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to turn my sorrow into a supremer self.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there was my father with his sorrows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sitting under the cedar tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A picture that sank into my heart at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bringing infinite repose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, ye souls who have made life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fragrant and white as tube roses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From earth’s dark soil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eternal peace!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="daniel-mcumber" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Daniel M’Cumber</h2>
				<p>
					<span>When I went to the city, Mary McNeely,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I meant to return for you, yes I did.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Laura, my landlady’s daughter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stole into my life somehow, and won me away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then after some years whom should I meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Georgine Miner from Niles⁠—a sprout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the free love, Fourierist gardens that flourished</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the war all over Ohio.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her dilettante lover had tired of her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she turned to me for strength and solace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was some kind of a crying thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One takes in one’s arms, and all at once</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It slimes your face with its running nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And voids its essence all over you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then bites your hand and springs away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there you stand bleeding and smelling to heaven!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, Mary McNeely, I was not worthy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To kiss the hem of your robe!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="georgine-sand-miner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Georgine Sand Miner</h2>
				<p>
					<span>A step-mother drove me from home, embittering me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A squaw-man, a flaneur and dilettante took my virtue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For years I was his mistress⁠—no one knew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I learned from him the parasite cunning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With which I moved with the bluffs, like a flea on a dog.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the time I was nothing but “very private,” with different men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Daniel, the radical, had me for years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sister called me his mistress;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Daniel wrote me: “Shameful word, soiling our beautiful love!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my anger coiled, preparing its fangs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My Lesbian friend next took a hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She hated Daniel’s sister.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Daniel despised her midget husband.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she saw a chance for a poisonous thrust:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must complain to the wife of Daniel’s pursuit!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But before I did that I begged him to fly to London with me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why not stay in the city just as we have?” he asked.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I turned submarine and revenged his repulse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the arms of my dilettante friend. Then up to the surface,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bearing the letter that Daniel wrote me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prove my honor was all intact, showing it to his wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My Lesbian friend and everyone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Daniel had only shot me dead!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Instead of stripping me naked of lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A harlot in body and soul!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thomas-rhodes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Thomas Rhodes</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Very well, you liberals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And navigators into realms intellectual,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You sailors through heights imaginative,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blown about by erratic currents, tumbling into air pockets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You Margaret Fuller Slacks, Petits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Tennessee Claflin Shopes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You tound with all your boasted wisdom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How hard at the last it is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To keep the soul from splitting into cellular atoms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While we, seekers of earth’s treasures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Getters and hoarders of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are self-contained, compact, harmonized,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even to the end.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ida-chicken" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ida Chicken</h2>
				<p>
					<span>After I had attended lectures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At our Chautauqua, and studied French</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For twenty years, committing the grammar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Almost by heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought I’d take a trip to Paris</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give my culture a final polish.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I went to Peoria for a passport⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Thomas Rhodes was on the train that morning.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there the clerk of the district Court</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made me swear to support and defend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The constitution⁠—yes, even me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who couldn’t defend or support it at all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what do you think? That very morning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Federal Judge, in the very next room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the room where I took the oath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Decided the constitution</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exempted Rhodes from paying taxes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the water works of Spoon River!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="penniwit-the-artist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Penniwit, the Artist</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I lost my patronage in Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From trying to put my mind in the camera</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To catch the soul of the person.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The very best picture I ever took</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was of Judge Somers, attorney at law.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sat upright and had me pause</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till he got his cross-eye straight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then when he was ready he said “all right.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I yell, “overruled” and his eye turned up.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I caught him just as he used to look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When saying “I except.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jim-brown" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jim Brown</h2>
				<p>
					<span>While I was handling Dom Pedro</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I got at the thing that divides the race between men who are</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For singing “Turkey in the straw” or “There is a fountain filled with blood”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Like Rile Potter used to sing it over at Concord);</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For cards, or for <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Peet’s lecture on the holy land;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For skipping the light fantastic, or passing the plate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Pinafore, or a Sunday school cantata;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For men, or for money;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the people or against them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This was it:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr>Rev.</abbr> Peet and the Social Purity Club,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Headed by Ben Pantier’s wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went to the Village trustees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And asked them to make me take Dom Pedro</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the barn of Wash McNeely, there at the edge of town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a barn outside of the corporation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the ground that it corrupted public morals.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, Ben Pantier and Fiddler Jones saved the day⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They thought it a slam on colts.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="robert-davidson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Robert Davidson</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I grew spiritually fat living off the souls of men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I saw a soul that was strong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wounded its pride and devoured its strength.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shelters of friendship knew my cunning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For where I could steal a friend I did so.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wherever I could enlarge my power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By undermining ambition, I did so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus to make smooth my own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to triumph over other souls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just to assert and prove my superior strength,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was with me a delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The keen exhilaration of soul gymnastics.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Devouring souls, I should have lived forever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But their undigested remains bred in me a deadly nephritis,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fear, restlessness, sinking spirits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hatred, suspicion, vision disturbed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I collapsed at last with a shriek.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remember the acorn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It does not devour other acorns.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="elsa-wertman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Elsa Wertman</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was a peasant girl from Germany,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blue-eyed, rosy, happy and strong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the first place I worked was at Thomas Greene’s.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a summer’s day when she was away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stole into the kitchen and took me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Right in his arms and kissed me on my throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I turning my head. Then neither of us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed to know what happened.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I cried for what would become of me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cried and cried as my secret began to show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One day <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Greene said she understood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And would make no trouble for me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, being childless, would adopt it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(He had given her a farm to be still.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So she hid in the house and sent out rumors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if it were going to happen to her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all went well and the child was born⁠—They were so kind to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Later I married Gus Wertman, and years passed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But⁠—at political rallies when sitters-by thought I was crying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the eloquence of Hamilton Greene⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was not it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No! I wanted to say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s my son! That’s my son!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hamilton-greene" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hamilton Greene</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was the only child of Frances Harris of Virginia</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Thomas Greene of Kentucky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of valiant and honorable blood both.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To them I owe all that I became,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judge, member of Congress, leader in the State.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From my mother I inherited</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vivacity, fancy, language;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From my father will, judgment, logic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All honor to them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what service I was to the people!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ernest-hyde" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ernest Hyde</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My mind was a mirror:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It saw what it saw, it knew what it knew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In youth my mind was just a mirror</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a rapidly flying car,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which catches and loses bits of the landscape.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then in time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great scratches were made on the mirror,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Letting the outside world come in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And letting my inner self look out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this is the birth of the soul in sorrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A birth with gains and losses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mind sees the world as a thing apart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the soul makes the world at one with itself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mirror scratched reflects no image⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this is the silence of wisdom.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="roger-heston" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Roger Heston</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Oh many times did Ernest Hyde and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Argue about the freedom of the will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My favorite metaphor was Prickett’s cow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roped out to grass, and free you know as far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the length of the rope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One day while arguing so, watching the cow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pull at the rope to get beyond the circle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which she had eaten bare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out came the stake, and tossing up her head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She ran for us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What’s that, free-will or what?” said Ernest, running.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I fell just as she gored me to my death.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="amos-sibley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Amos Sibley</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Not character, not fortitude, not patience</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were mine, the which the village thought I had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In bearing with my wife, while preaching on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doing the work God chose for me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I loathed her as a termagant, as a wanton.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knew of her adulteries, every one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But even so, if I divorced the woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must forsake the ministry.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therefore to do God’s work and have it crop,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I bore with her!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So lied I to myself!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So lied I to Spoon River!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet I tried lecturing, ran for the legislature,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Canvassed for books, with just the thought in mind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I make money thus, I will divorce her.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-sibley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Sibley</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The secret of the stars⁠—gravitation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret of the earth⁠—layers of rock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret of the soil⁠—to receive seed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret of the seed⁠—the germ.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret of man⁠—the sower.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret of woman⁠—the soil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My secret: Under a mound that you shall never find.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="adam-weirauch" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Adam Weirauch</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was crushed between Altgeld and Armour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I lost many friends, much time and money</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fighting for Altgeld whom Editor Whedon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Denounced as the candidate of gamblers and anarchists.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Armour started to ship dressed meat to Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forcing me to shut down my slaughter-house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my butcher shop went all to pieces.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The new forces of Altgeld and Armour caught me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the same time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought it due me, to recoup the money I lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to make good the friends that left me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the Governor to appoint me Canal Commissioner.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Instead he appointed Whedon of the Spoon River <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Argus</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I ran for the legislature and was elected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said to hell with principle and sold my vote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Charles T. Yerkes’ street-car franchise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of course I was one of the fellows they caught.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who was it, Armour, Altgeld or myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ruined me?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ezra-bartlett" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ezra Bartlett</h2>
				<p>
					<span>A chaplain in the army,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A chaplain in the prisons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An exhorter in Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drunk with divinity, Spoon River⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet bringing poor Eliza Johnson to shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And myself to scorn and wretchedness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But why will you never see that love of women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And even love of wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are the stimulants by which the soul, hungering for divinity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reaches the ecstatic vision</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sees the celestial outposts?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only after many trials for strength,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only when all stimulants fail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Does the aspiring soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By its own sheer power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Find the divine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By resting upon itself.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="amelia-garrick" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Amelia Garrick</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, here I lie close to a stunted rose bush</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a forgotten place near the fence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the thickets from Siever’s woods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have crept over, growing sparsely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you, you are a leader in New York,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wife of a noted millionaire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A name in the society columns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beautiful, admired, magnified perhaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the mirage of distance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You have succeeded, I have failed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the eyes of the world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are alive, I am dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet I know that I vanquished your spirit;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I know that lying here far from you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unheard of among your great friends</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the brilliant world where you move,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am really the unconquerable power over your life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That robs it of complete triumph.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="john-hancock-otis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">John Hancock Otis</h2>
				<p>
					<span>As to democracy, fellow citizens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you not prepared to admit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I, who inherited riches and was to the manor born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was second to none in Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my devotion to the cause of Liberty?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While my contemporary, Anthony Findlay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Born in a shanty and beginning life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a water carrier to the section hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then becoming a section hand when he was grown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Afterwards foreman of the gang, until he rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the superintendency of the railroad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Living in Chicago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a veritable slave driver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grinding the faces of labor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a bitter enemy of democracy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I say to you, Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to you, O republic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beware of the man who rises to power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From one suspender.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="anthony-findlay" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Anthony Findlay</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Both for the country and for the man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for a country as well as a man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis better to be feared than loved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if this country would rather part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the friendship of every nation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than surrender its wealth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I say of a man ’tis worse to lose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Money than friends.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I rend the curtain that hides the soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an ancient aspiration:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the people clamor for freedom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They really seek for power o’er the strong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, Anthony Findlay, rising to greatness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From a humble water carrier,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until I could say to thousands “Come,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And say to thousands “Go,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Affirm that a nation can never be good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or achieve the good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the strong and the wise have not the rod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To use on the dull and weak.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="john-cabanis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">John Cabanis</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Neither spite, fellow citizens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor forgetfulness of the shiftlessness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lawlessness and waste</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under democracy’s rule in Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made me desert the party of law and order</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lead the liberal party.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fellow citizens! I saw as one with second sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That every man of the millions of men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who give themselves to Freedom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fail while Freedom fails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enduring waste and lawlessness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rule of the weak and the blind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dies in the hope of building earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the coral insect, for the temple</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stand on at the last.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I swear that Freedom will wage to the end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The war for making every soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wise and strong and as fit to rule</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Plato’s lofty guardians</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a world republic girdled!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-unknown" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Unknown</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Ye aspiring ones, listen to the story of the unknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who lies here with no stone to mark the place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a boy reckless and wanton,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wandering with gun in hand through the forest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Near the mansion of Aaron Hatfield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shot a hawk perched on the top</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a dead tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He fell with guttural cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At my feet, his wing broken.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I put him in a cage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where he lived many days cawing angrily at me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I offered him food.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Daily I search the realms of Hades</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the soul of the hawk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I may offer him the friendship</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of one whom life wounded and caged.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="alexander-throckmorton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Alexander Throckmorton</h2>
				<p>
					<span>In youth my wings were strong and tireless,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I did not know the mountains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In age I knew the mountains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my weary wings could not follow my vision⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Genius is wisdom and youth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jonathan-swift-somers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jonathan Swift Somers<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a></h2>
				<p>
					<span>After you have enriched your soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the highest point,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With books, thought, suffering, the understanding of many personalities,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The power to interpret glances, silences,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pauses in momentous transformations,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The genius of divination and prophecy;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that you feel able at times to hold the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the hollow of your hand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, if, by the crowding of so many powers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the compass of your soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your soul takes fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the conflagration of your soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The evil of the world is lighted up and made clear⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be thankful if in that hour of supreme vision</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Life does not fiddle.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="widow-mcfarlane" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Widow McFarlane</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was the Widow McFarlane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weaver of carpets for all the village.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I pity you still at the loom of life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You who are singing to the shuttle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lovingly watching the work of your hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you reach the day of hate, of terrible truth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the cloth of life is woven, you know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a pattern hidden under the loom⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pattern you never see!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you weave high-hearted, singing, singing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You guard the threads of love and friendship</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For noble figures in gold and purple.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And long after other eyes can see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You have woven a moon-white strip of cloth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You laugh in your strength, for Hope o’erlays it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With shapes of love and beauty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loom stops short! The pattern’s out!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’re alone in the room! You have woven a shroud!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hate of it lays you in it!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="carl-hamblin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Carl Hamblin</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The press of the Spoon River <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Clarion</i> was wrecked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was tarred and feathered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For publishing this on the day the Anarchists were hanged in Chicago:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I saw a beautiful woman with bandaged eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Standing on the steps of a marble temple.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great multitudes passed in front of her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifting their faces to her imploringly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In her left hand she held a sword.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was brandishing the sword,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes striking a child, again a laborer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again a slinking woman, again a lunatic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In her right hand she held a scale;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the scale pieces of gold were tossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By those who dodged the strokes of the sword.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man in a black gown read from a manuscript:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘She is no respecter of persons.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then a youth wearing a red cap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaped to her side and snatched away the bandage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lo, the lashes had been eaten away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the oozy eyelids;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The eye-balls were seared with a milky mucus;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The madness of a dying soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was written on her face⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the multitude saw why she wore the bandage.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="editor-whedon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Editor Whedon</h2>
				<p>
					<span>To be able to see every side of every question;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be on every side, to be everything, to be nothing long;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pervert truth, to ride it for a purpose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To use great feelings and passions of the human family</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For base designs, for cunning ends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wear a mask like the Greek actors⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your eight-page paper⁠—behind which you huddle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bawling through the megaphone of big type:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“This is I, the giant.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thereby also living the life of a sneak-thief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poisoned with the anonymous words</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of your clandestine soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To scratch dirt over scandal for money,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And exhume it to the winds for revenge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or to sell papers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crushing reputations, or bodies, if need be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To win at any cost, save your own life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To glory in demoniac power, ditching civilization,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a paranoiac boy puts a log on the track</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And derails the express train.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be an editor, as I was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then to lie here close by the river over the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the sewage flows from the village,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the empty cans and garbage are dumped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And abortions are hidden.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="eugene-carman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Eugene Carman</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Rhodes’ slave! Selling shoes and gingham,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flour and bacon, overalls, clothing, all day long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For fourteen hours a day for three hundred and thirteen days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For more than twenty years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saying “Yes’m” and “Yes, sir” and “Thank you”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand times a day, and all for fifty dollars a month.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Living in this stinking room in the rattle-trap “Commercial.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And compelled to go to Sunday School, and to listen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Abner Peet one hundred and four times a year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For more than an hour at a time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because Thomas Rhodes ran the church</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well as the store and the bank.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So while I was tying my neck-tie that morning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I suddenly saw myself in the glass:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My hair all gray, my face like a sodden pie.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I cursed and cursed: You damned old thing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cowardly dog! You rotten pauper!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You Rhodes’ slave! Till Roger Baughman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thought I was having a fight with some one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And looked through the transom just in time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see me fall on the floor in a heap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From a broken vein in my head.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="clarence-fawcett" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Clarence Fawcett</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The sudden death of Eugene Carman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put me in line to be promoted to fifty dollars a month,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I told my wife and children that night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it didn’t come, and so I thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old Rhodes suspected me of stealing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blankets I took and sold on the side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For money to pay a doctor’s bill for my little girl.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then like a bolt old Rhodes accused me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And promised me mercy for my family’s sake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I confessed, and so I confessed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And begged him to keep it out of the papers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I asked the editors, too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That night at home the constable took me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every paper, except the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Clarion</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrote me up as a thief</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because old Rhodes was an advertiser</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wanted to make an example of me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh! well, you know how the children cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how my wife pitied and hated me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how I came to lie here.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="w-lloyd-garrison-standard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">W. Lloyd Garrison Standard</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Vegetarian, non-resistant, free-thinker, in ethics a Christian;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Orator apt at the rhine-stone rhythm of Ingersoll;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Carnivorous, avenger, believer and pagan;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Continent, promiscuous, changeable, treacherous, vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud, with the pride that makes struggle a thing for laughter;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With heart cored out by the worm of theatric despair;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wearing the coat of indifference to hide the shame of defeat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, child of the abolitionist idealism⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sort of Brand in a birth of half-and-half.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What other thing could happen when I defended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The patriot scamps who burned the court house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Spoon River might have a new one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than plead them guilty? When Kinsey Keene drove through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The card-board mask of my life with a spear of light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What could I do but slink away, like the beast of myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which I raised from a whelp, to a corner and growl.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pyramid of my life was nought but a dune,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barren and formless, spoiled at last by the storm.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="professor-newcomer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Professor Newcomer</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Everyone laughed at <abbr>Col.</abbr> Prichard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For buying an engine so powerful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it wrecked itself, and wrecked the grinder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He ran it with.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But here is a joke of cosmic size:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The urge of nature that made a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Evolve from his brain a spiritual life⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh miracle of the world!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The very same brain with which the ape and wolf</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Get food and shelter and procreate themselves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nature has made man do this,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a world where she gives him nothing to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After all⁠—(though the strength of his soul goes round</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a futile waste of power,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To gear itself to the mills of the gods)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But get food and shelter and procreate himself!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ralph-rhodes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ralph Rhodes</h2>
				<p>
					<span>All they said was true:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wrecked my father’s bank with my loans</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dabble in wheat; but this was true⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was buying wheat for him as well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who couldn’t margin the deal in his name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because of his church relationship.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And while George Reece was serving his term</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I chased the will-o’-the-wisp of women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the mockery of wine in New York.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s deathly to sicken of wine and women</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When nothing else is left in life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But suppose your head is gray, and bowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a table covered with acrid stubs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of cigarettes and empty glasses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a knock is heard, and you know it’s the knock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So long drowned out by popping corks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the peacock screams of demireps⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you look up, and there’s your Theft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who waited until your head was gray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your heart skipped beats to say to you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The game is ended. I’ve called for you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go out on Broadway and be run over,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’ll ship you back to Spoon River.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mickey-m-grew" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Mickey M’Grew</h2>
				<p>
					<span>It was just like everything else in life:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something outside myself drew me down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My own strength never failed me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, there was the time I earned the money</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With which to go away to school,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my father suddenly needed help</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I had to give him all of it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just so it went till I ended up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man-of-all-work in Spoon River.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus when I got the water-tower cleaned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they hauled me up the seventy feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I unhooked the rope from my waist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And laughingly flung my giant arms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the smooth steel lips of the top of the tower⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they slipped from the treacherous slime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And down, down, down, I plunged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through bellowing darkness!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rosie-roberts" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Rosie Roberts</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was sick, but more than that, I was mad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the crooked police, and the crooked game of life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I wrote to the Chief of Police at Peoria:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I am here in my girlhood home in Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gradually wasting away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But come and take me, I killed the son</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the merchant prince, in Madam Lou’s,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the papers that said he killed himself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his home while cleaning a hunting gun⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lied like the devil to hush up scandal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the bribe of advertising.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my room I shot him, at Madam Lou’s,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because he knocked me down when I said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, in spite of all the money he had,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d see my lover that night.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="oscar-hummel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Oscar Hummel</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I staggered on through darkness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was a hazy sky, a few stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which I followed as best I could.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was nine o’clock, I was trying to get home.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But somehow I was lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though really keeping the road.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I reeled through a gate and into a yard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And called at the top of my voice:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Oh, Fiddler! Oh, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jones!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I thought it was his house and he would show me the way home.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But who should step out but <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. D.</abbr> Blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his night shirt, waving a stick of wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And roaring about the cursed saloons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the criminals they made?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You drunken Oscar Hummel,” he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I stood there weaving to and fro,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taking the blows from the stick in his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I dropped down dead at his feet.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="roscoe-purkapile" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Roscoe Purkapile</h2>
				<p>
					<span>She loved me. Oh! how she loved me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never had a chance to escape</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the day she first saw me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But then after we were married I thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She might prove her mortality and let me out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or she might divorce me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But few die, none resign.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I ran away and was gone a year on a lark.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she never complained. She said all would be well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I would return. And I did return.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I told her that while taking a row in a boat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had been captured near Van Buren Street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By pirates on Lake Michigan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And kept in chains, so I could not write her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She cried and kissed me, and said it was cruel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outrageous, inhuman!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I then concluded our marriage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a divine dispensation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And could not be dissolved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except by death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was right.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-purkapile" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Purkapile</h2>
				<p>
					<span>He ran away and was gone for a year.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he came home he told me the silly story</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of being kidnapped by pirates on Lake Michigan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And kept in chains so he could not write me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pretended to believe it, though I knew very well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What he was doing, and that he met</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The milliner, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Williams, now and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When she went to the city to buy goods, as she said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a promise is a promise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And marriage is marriage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And out of respect for my own character</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I refused to be drawn into a divorce</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the scheme of a husband who had merely grown tired</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his marital vow and duty.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="josiah-tompkins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Josiah Tompkins</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was well known and much beloved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rich, as fortunes are reckoned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Spoon River, where I had lived and worked.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was the home for me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though all my children had flown afar⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which is the way of Nature⁠—all but one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The boy, who was the baby, stayed at home,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be my help in my failing years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the solace of his mother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I grew weaker, as he grew stronger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he quarreled with me about the business,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his wife said I was a hindrance to it;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he won his mother to see as he did,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till they tore me up to be transplanted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With them to her girlhood home in Missouri.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so much of my fortune was gone at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though I made the will just as he drew it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He profited little by it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-kessler" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Kessler</h2>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kessler, you know, was in the army,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he drew six dollars a month as a pension,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stood on the corner talking politics,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or sat at home reading Grant’s Memoirs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I supported the family by washing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Learning the secrets of all the people</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From their curtains, counterpanes, shirts and skirts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For things that are new grow old at length,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’re replaced with better or none at all:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>People are prospering or falling back.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rents and patches widen with time;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No thread or needle can pace decay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there are stains that baffle soap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there are colors that run in spite of you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blamed though you are for spoiling a dress.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Handkerchiefs, napery, have their secrets⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The laundress, Life, knows all about it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I, who went to all the funerals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held in Spoon River, swear I never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw a dead face without thinking it looked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like something washed and ironed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="harmon-whitney" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Harmon Whitney</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Out of the lights and roar of cities,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drifting down like a spark in Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burnt out with the fire of drink, and broken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The paramour of a woman I took in self-contempt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But to hide a wounded pride as well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be judged and loathed by a village of little minds⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, gifted with tongues and wisdom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sunk here to the dust of the justice court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A picker of rags in the rubbage of spites and wrongs⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, whom fortune smiled on! I in a village,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spouting to gaping yokels pages of verse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the lore of golden years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or raising a laugh with a flash of filthy wit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they bought the drinks to kindle my dying mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be judged by you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul of me hidden from you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its wound gangrened</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By love for a wife who made the wound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With her cold white bosom, treasonous, pure and hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Relentless to the last, when the touch of her hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At any time, might have cured me of the typhus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caught in the jungle of life where many are lost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only to think that my soul could not re-act,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Byron’s did, in song, in something noble,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But turned on itself like a tortured snake⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judge me this way, O world!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="bert-kessler" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Bert Kessler</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I winged my bird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though he flew toward the setting sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But just as the shot rang out, he soared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up and up through the splinters of golden light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till he turned right over, feathers ruffled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With some of the down of him floating near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fell like a plummet into the grass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I tramped about, parting the tangles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I saw a splash of blood on a stump,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the quail lying close to the rotten roots.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I reached my hand, but saw no brier,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But something pricked and stung and numbed it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then, in a second, I spied the rattler⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shutters wide in his yellow eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The head of him arched, sunk back in the rings of him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A circle of filth, the color of ashes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or oak leaves bleached under layers of leaves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stood like a stone as he shrank and uncoiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And started to crawl beneath the stump,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I fell limp in the grass.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lambert-hutchins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lambert Hutchins</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I have two monuments besides this granite obelisk:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One, the house I built on the hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its spires, bay windows, and roof of slate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The other, the lake-front in Chicago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the railroad keeps a switching yard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With whistling engines and crunching wheels,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And smoke and soot thrown over the city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the crash of cars along the boulevard⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A blot like a hog-pen on the harbor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a great metropolis, foul as a sty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I helped to give this heritage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To generations yet unborn, with my vote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the House of Representatives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lure of the thing was to be at rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the never-ending fright of need,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to give my daughters gentle breeding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a sense of security in life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, you see, though I had the mansion house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And traveling passes and local distinction,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could hear the whispers, whispers, whispers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherever I went, and my daughters grew up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a look as if some one were about to strike them;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they married madly, helter-skelter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just to get out and have a change.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what was the whole of the business worth?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, it wasn’t worth a damn!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lillian-stewart" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lillian Stewart</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was the daughter of Lambert Hutchins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Born in a cottage near the grist-mill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reared in the mansion there on the hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its spires, bay-windows, and roof of slate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How proud my mother was of the mansion!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How proud of father’s rise in the world!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how my father loved and watched us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And guarded our happiness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I believe the house was a curse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For father’s fortune was little beside it;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when my husband found he had married</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A girl who was really poor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He taunted me with the spires,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And called the house a fraud on the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A treacherous lure to young men, raising hopes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a dowry not to be had;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a man while selling his vote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should get enough from the people’s betrayal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wall the whole of his family in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He vexed my life till I went back home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lived like an old maid till I died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keeping house for father.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hortense-robbins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hortence Robbins</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My name used to be in the papers daily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As having dined somewhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or traveled somewhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or rented a house in Paris,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I entertained the nobility.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was forever eating or traveling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or taking the cure at Baden-Baden.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I am here to do honor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Spoon River, here beside the family whence I sprang.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No one cares now where I dined,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or lived, or whom I entertained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or how often I took the cure at Baden-Baden!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="batterton-dobyns" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Batterton Dobyns</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Did my widow flit about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Mackinac to Los Angeles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resting and bathing and sitting an hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or more at the table over soup and meats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And delicate sweets and coffee?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was cut down in my prime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From overwork and anxiety.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I thought all along, whatever happens</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve kept my insurance up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there’s something in the bank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a section of land in Manitoba.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But just as I slipped I had a vision</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a last delirium:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw myself lying nailed in a box</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a white lawn tie and a boutonniere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my wife was sitting by a window</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some place afar overlooking the sea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She seemed so rested, ruddy and fat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although her hair was white.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she smiled and said to a colored waiter:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Another slice of roast beef, George.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here’s a nickel for your trouble.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jacob-godbey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jacob Godbey</h2>
				<p>
					<span>How did you feel, you libertarians,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who spent your talents rallying noble reasons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around the saloon, as if Liberty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was not to be found anywhere except at the bar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or at a table, guzzling?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How did you feel, Ben Pantier, and the rest of you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who almost stoned me for a tyrant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Garbed as a moralist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as a wry-faced ascetic frowning upon Yorkshire pudding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roast beef and ale and good will and rosy cheer⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Things you never saw in a grog-shop in your life?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How did you feel after I was dead and gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your goddess, Liberty, unmasked as a strumpet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Selling out the streets of Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the insolent giants</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who manned the saloons from afar?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did it occur to you that personal liberty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is liberty of the mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rather than of the belly?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="walter-simmons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Walter Simmons</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My parents thought that I would be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As great as Edison or greater:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For as a boy I made balloons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wondrous kites and toys with clocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And little engines with tracks to run on</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And telephones of cans and thread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I played the cornet and painted pictures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Modeled in clay and took the part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the villain in the “Octoroon.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But then at twenty-one I married</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And had to live, and so, to live</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I learned the trade of making watches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And kept the jewelry store on the square,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not of business, but of the engine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I studied the calculus to build.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all Spoon River watched and waited</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see it work, but it never worked.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a few kind souls believed my genius</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was somehow hampered by the store.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It wasn’t true. The truth was this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I didn’t have the brains.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tom-beatty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Tom Beatty</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was a lawyer like Harmon Whitney</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or Kinsey Keene or Garrison Standard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I tried the rights of property,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although by lamp-light, for thirty years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that poker room in the opera house.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I say to you that Life’s a gambler</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Head and shoulders above us all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No mayor alive can close the house.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if you lose, you can squeal as you will;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll not get back your money.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He makes the percentage hard to conquer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stacks the cards to catch your weakness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not to meet your strength.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he gives you seventy years to play:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For if you cannot win in seventy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cannot win at all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, if you lose, get out of the room⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Get out of the room when your time is up.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s mean to sit and fumble the cards,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And curse your losses, leaden-eyed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whining to try and try.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="roy-butler" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Roy Butler</h2>
				<p>
					<span>If the learned Supreme Court of Illinois</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Got at the secret of every case</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well as it does a case of rape</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It would be the greatest court in the world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A jury, of neighbors mostly, with “Butch” Weldy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As foreman, found me guilty in ten minutes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And two ballots on a case like this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Richard Bandle and I had trouble over a fence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my wife and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bandle quarreled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to whether Ipava was a finer town than Table Grove.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I awoke one morning with the love of God</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brimming over my heart, so I went to see Richard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To settle the fence in the spirit of Jesus Christ.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knocked on the door, and his wife opened;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She smiled and asked me in. I entered⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She slammed the door and began to scream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Take your hands off, you low down varlet!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just then her husband entered.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I waved my hands, choked up with words.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He went for his gun, and I ran out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But neither the Supreme Court nor my wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believed a word she said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="searcy-foote" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Searcy Foote</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I wanted to go away to college</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But rich Aunt Persis wouldn’t help me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I made gardens and raked the lawns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bought John Alden’s books with my earnings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And toiled for the very means of life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wanted to marry Delia Prickett,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But how could I do it with what I earned?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there was Aunt Persis more than seventy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who sat in a wheel-chair half alive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With her throat so paralyzed, when she swallowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soup ran out of her mouth like a duck⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A gourmand yet, investing her income</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mortgages, fretting all the time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About her notes and rents and papers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That day I was sawing wood for her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reading Proudhon in between.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I went in the house for a drink of water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there she sat asleep in her chair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Proudhon lying on the table,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a bottle of chloroform on the book,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She used sometimes for an aching tooth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I poured the chloroform on a handkerchief</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And held it to her nose till she died.⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh Delia, Delia, you and Proudhon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steadied my hand, and the coroner</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said she died of heart failure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I married Delia and got the money⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A joke on you, Spoon River?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="edmund-pollard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Edmund Pollard</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I would I had thrust my hands of flesh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the disk-flowers bee-infested,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the mirror-like core of fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the light of life, the sun of delight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what are anthers worth or petals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or halo-rays? Mockeries, shadows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the heart of the flower, the central flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All is yours, young passer-by;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enter the banquet room with the thought;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t sidle in as if you were doubtful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whether you’re welcome⁠—the feast is yours!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor take but a little, refusing more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a bashful “Thank you,” when you’re hungry.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is your soul alive? Then let it feed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leave no balconies where you can climb;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor milk-white bosoms where you can rest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor golden heads with pillows to share;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor wine cups while the wine is sweet;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ecstasies of body or soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You will die, no doubt, but die while living</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In depths of azure, rapt and mated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kissing the queen-bee, Life!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thomas-trebelyan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Thomas Trebelyan</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Reading in Ovid the sorrowful story of Itys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Son of the love of Tereus and Procne, slain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the guilty passion of Tereus for Philomela,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flesh of him served to Tereus by Procne,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wrath of Tereus, the murderess pursuing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the gods made Philomela a nightingale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lute of the rising moon, and Procne a swallow!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh livers and artists of Hellas centuries gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sealing in little thuribles dreams and wisdom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Incense beyond all price, forever fragrant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A breath whereof makes clear the eyes of the soul!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How I inhaled its sweetness here in Spoon River!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thurible opening when I had lived and learned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How all of us kill the children of love, and all of us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knowing not what we do, devour their flesh;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all of us change to singers, although it be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But once in our lives, or change⁠—alas!⁠—to swallows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To twitter amid cold winds and falling leaves!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="percival-sharp" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Percival Sharp</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Observe the clasped hands!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are they hands of farewell or greeting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hands that I helped or hands that helped me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would it not be well to carve a hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an inverted thumb, like Elagabalus?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yonder is a broken chain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weakest-link idea perhaps⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what was it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lambs, some lying down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others standing, as if listening to the shepherd⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others bearing a cross, one foot lifted up⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why not chisel a few shambles?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fallen columns! Carve the pedestal, please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or the foundations; let us see the cause of the fall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And compasses and mathematical instruments,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In irony of the under tenants’ ignorance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of determinants and the calculus of variations.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And anchors, for those who never sailed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gates ajar⁠—yes, so they were;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You left them open and stray goats entered your garden.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And an eye watching like one of the Arimaspi⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So did you⁠—with one eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And angels blowing trumpets⁠—you are heralded⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is your horn and your angel and your family’s estimate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is all very well, but for myself I know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stirred certain vibrations in Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which are my true epitaph, more lasting than stone.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hiram-scates" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hiram Scates</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I tried to win the nomination</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For president of the County-board</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I made speeches all over the County</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Denouncing Solomon Purple, my rival,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As an enemy of the people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In league with the master-foes of man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young idealists, broken warriors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hobbling on one crutch of hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Souls that stake their all on the truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Losers of worlds at heaven’s bidding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flocked about me and followed my voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the savior of the County.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Solomon won the nomination;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then I faced about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rallied my followers to his standard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made him victor, made him King</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Golden Mountain with the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which closed on my heels just as I entered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flattered by Solomon’s invitation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be the County-board’s secretary.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And out in the cold stood all my followers:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young idealists, broken warriors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hobbling on one crutch of hope⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Souls that staked their all on the truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Losers of worlds at heaven’s bidding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watching the Devil kick the Millennium</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the Golden Mountain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="peleg-poague" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Peleg Poague</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Horses and men are just alike.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was my stallion, Billy Lee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Black as a cat and trim as a deer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an eye of fire, keen to start,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he could hit the fastest speed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of any racer around Spoon River.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But just as you’d think he couldn’t lose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his lead of fifty yards or more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’d rear himself and throw the rider,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fall back over, tangled up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Completely gone to pieces.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You see he was a perfect fraud:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He couldn’t win, he couldn’t work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was too light to haul or plow with,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no one wanted colts from him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I tried to drive him⁠—well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He ran away and killed me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jeduthan-hawley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jeduthan Hawley</h2>
				<p>
					<span>There would be a knock at the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I would arise at midnight and go to the shop,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where belated travelers would hear me hammering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sepulchral boards and tacking satin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And often I wondered who would go with me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the distant land, our names the theme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For talk, in the same week, for I’ve observed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two always go together.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chase Henry was paired with Edith Conant;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Jonathan Somers with Willie Metcalf;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Editor Hamblin with Francis Turner,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he prayed to live longer than Editor Whedon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Thomas Rhodes with widow McFarlane;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Emily Sparks with Barry Holden;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Oscar Hummel with Davis Matlock;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Editor Whedon with Fiddler Jones;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Faith Matheny with Dorcas Gustine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I, the solemnest man in town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stepped off with Daisy Fraser.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="abel-melveny" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Abel Melveny</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I bought every kind of machine that’s known⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grinders, shellers, planters, mowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mills and rakes and ploughs and threshers⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all of them stood in the rain and sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Getting rusted, warped and battered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I had no sheds to store them in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no use for most of them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And toward the last, when I thought it over,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There by my window, growing clearer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About myself, as my pulse slowed down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And looked at one of the mills I bought⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which I didn’t have the slightest need of,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As things turned out, and I never ran⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fine machine, once brightly varnished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And eager to do its work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now with its paint washed off⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw myself as a good machine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Life had never used.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="oaks-tutt" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Oaks Tutt</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My mother was for woman’s rights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my father was the rich miller at London Mills.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I dreamed of the wrongs of the world and wanted to right them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When my father died, I set out to see peoples and countries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In order to learn how to reform the world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I traveled through many lands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw the ruins of Rome,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the ruins of Athens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the ruins of Thebes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I sat by moonlight amid the necropolis of Memphis.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There I was caught up by wings of flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a voice from heaven said to me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Injustice, Untruth destroyed them. Go forth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Preach Justice! Preach Truth!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I hastened back to Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To say farewell to my mother before beginning my work.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They all saw a strange light in my eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by and by, when I taIked, they discovered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What had come in my mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Jonathan Swift Somers challenged me to debate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The subject, (I taking the negative):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Pontius Pilate, the Greatest Philosopher of the World.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he won the debate by saying at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Before you reform the world, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tutt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Please answer the question of Pontius Pilate:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘What is Truth?’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="elliott-hawkins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Elliott Hawkins</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I looked like Abraham Lincoln.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was one of you, Spoon River, in all fellowship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But standing for the rights of property and for order.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A regular church attendant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes appearing in your town meetings to warn you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the evils of discontent and envy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to denounce those who tried to destroy the Union,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to point to the peril of the Knights of Labor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My success and my example are inevitable influences</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your young men and in generations to come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In spite of attacks of newspapers like the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Clarion</i>;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A regular visitor at Springfield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the Legislature was in session</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prevent raids upon the railroads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the men building up the state.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trusted by them and by you, Spoon River, equally</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In spite of the whispers that I was a lobbyist.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moving quietly through the world, rich and courted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dying at last, of course, but lying here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under a stone with an open book carved upon it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the words “Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now, you world-savers, who reaped nothing in life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in death have neither stones nor epitaphs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How do you like your silence from mouths stopped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the dust of my triumphant career?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="voltaire-johnson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Voltaire Johnson</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Why did you bruise me with your rough places</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you did not want me to tell you about them?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stifle me with your stupidities,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you did not want me to expose them?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nail me with the nails of cruelty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you did not want me to pluck the nails forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fling them in your faces?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And starve me because I refused to obey you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you did not want me to undermine your tyranny?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I might have been as soul serene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As William Wordsworth except for you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what a coward you are, Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you drove me to stand in a magic circle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the sword of Truth described!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then to whine and curse your burns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And curse my power who stood and laughed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid ironical lightning!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="english-thornton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">English Thornton</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Here! You sons of the men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fought with Washington at Valley Forge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And whipped Black Hawk at Starved Rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arise! Do battle with the descendants of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who bought land in the loop when it was waste sand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sold blankets and guns to the army of Grant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sat in legislatures in the early days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taking bribes from the railroads!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arise! Do battle with the fops and bluffs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pretenders and figurantes of the society column</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the yokel souls whose daughters marry counts;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the parasites on great ideas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the noisy riders of great causes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the heirs of ancient thefts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arise! And make the city yours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the State yours⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You who are sons of the hardy yeomanry of the forties!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By God! If you do not destroy these vermin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My avenging ghost will wipe out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your city and your state.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="enoch-dunlap" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Enoch Dunlap</h2>
				<p>
					<span>How many times, during the twenty years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was your leader, friends of Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did you neglect the convention and caucus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leave the burden on my hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of guarding and saving the people’s cause?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes because you were ill;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or your grandmother was ill;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or you drank too much and fell asleep;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or else you said: “He is our leader,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All will be well; he fights for us;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have nothing to do but follow.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But oh, how you cursed me when I fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cursed me, saying I had betrayed you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In leaving the caucus room for a moment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the people’s enemies, there assembled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waited and watched for a chance to destroy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Sacred Rights of the People.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You common rabble! I left the caucus</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To go to the urinal!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ida-frickey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ida Frickey</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Nothing in life is alien to you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was a penniless girl from Summum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who stepped from the morning train in Spoon River.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the houses stood before me with closed doors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drawn shades⁠—l was barred out;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had no place or part in any of them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I walked past the old McNeely mansion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A castle of stone ’mid walks and gardens</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With workmen about the place on guard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the County and State upholding it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For its lordly owner, full of pride.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was so hungry I had a vision:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw a giant pair of scissors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dip from the sky, like the beam of a dredge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cut the house in two like a curtain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But at the “Commercial” I saw a man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who winked at me as I asked for work⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was Wash McNeely’s son.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He proved the link in the chain of title</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To half my ownership of the mansion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through a breach of promise suit⁠—the scissors.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, you see, the house, from the day I was born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was only waiting for me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="seth-compton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Seth Compton</h2>
				<p>
					<span>When I died, the circulating library</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which I built up for Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And managed for the good of inquiring minds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was sold at auction on the public square,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if to destroy the last vestige</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of my memory and influence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For those of you who could not see the virtue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of knowing Volney’s “Ruins” as well as Butler’s “Analogy”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And “Faust” as well as “Evangeline,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were really the power in the village,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And often you asked me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What is the use of knowing the evil in the world?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am out of your way now, Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Choose your own good and call it good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I could never make you see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That no one knows what is good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knows not what is evil;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no one knows what is true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knows not what is false.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="felix-schmidt" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Felix Schmidt</h2>
				<p>
					<span>It was only a little house of two rooms⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Almost like a child’s play-house⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With scarce five acres of ground around it;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I had so many children to feed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And school and clothe, and a wife who was sick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From bearing children.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One day lawyer Whitney came along</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And proved to me that Christian Dallman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who owned three thousand acres of land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had bought the eighty that adjoined me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In eighteen hundred and seventy-one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For eleven dollars, at a sale for taxes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While my father lay in his mortal illness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the quarrel arose and I went to law.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when we came to the proof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A survey of the land showed clear as day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Dallman’s tax deed covered my ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my little house of two rooms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It served me right for stirring him up.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I lost my case and lost my place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I left the court room and went to work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Christian Dallman’s tenant.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="schroeder-the-fisherman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Schroeder the Fisherman</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I sat on the bank above Bernadotte</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dropped crumbs in the water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just to see the minnows bump each other,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until the strongest got the prize.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or I went to my little pasture,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the peaceful swine were asleep in the wallow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or nosing each other lovingly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And emptied a basket of yellow corn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And watched them push and squeal and bite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And trample each other to get the corn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I saw how Christian Dallman’s farm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of more than three thousand acres,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swallowed the patch of Felix Schmidt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a bass will swallow a minnow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I say if there’s anything in man⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spirit, or conscience, or breath of God</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That makes him different from fishes or hogs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d like to see it work!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="richard-bone" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Richard Bone</h2>
				<p>
					<span>When I first came to Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I did not know whether what they told me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was true or false.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They would bring me the epitath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stand around the shop while I worked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And say “He was so kind,” “He was so wonderful,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“She was the sweetest woman,” “He was a consistent Christian.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I chiseled for them whatever they wished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All in ignorance of the truth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But later, as I lived among the people here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knew how near to the life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were the epitaths that were ordered for them as they died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But still I chiseled whatever they paid me to chisel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made myself party to the false chronicles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even as the historian does who writes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without knowing the truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or because he is influenced to hide it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="silas-dement" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Silas Dement</h2>
				<p>
					<span>It was moonlight, and the earth sparkled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With new-fallen frost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was midnight and not a soul abroad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the chimney of the courthouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A gray-hound of smoke leapt and chased</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The northwest wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I carried a ladder to the landing of the stairs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leaned it against the frame of the trap-door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the ceiling of the portico,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I crawled under the roof and amid the rafters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flung among the seasoned timbers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A lighted handful of oil-soaked waste.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I came down and slunk away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a little while the fire-bell rang⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clang! Clang! Clang!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Spoon River ladder company</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came with a dozen buckets and began to pour water</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the glorious bon-fire, growing hotter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Higher and brighter, till the walls fell in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the limestone columns where Lincoln stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crashed like trees when the woodman fells them⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I came back from Joliet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was a new court house with a dome.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I was punished like all who destroy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The past for the sake of the future.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dillard-sissman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dillard Sissman</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The buzzards wheel slowly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In wide circles, in a sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faintly hazed as from dust from the road.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a wind sweeps through the pasture where I lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beating the grass into long waves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My kite is above the wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though now and then it wobbles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a man shaking his shoulders;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the tail streams out momentarily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then sinks to rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the buzzards wheel and wheel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweeping the zenith with wide circles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above my kite. And the hills sleep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a farm house, white as snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peeps from green trees⁠—far away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I watch my kite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the thin moon will kindle herself ere long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then she will swing like a pendulum dial</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the tail of my kite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A spurt of flame like a water-dragon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dazzles my eyes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am shaken as a banner!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jonathan-houghton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jonathan Houghton</h2>
				<p>
					<span>There is the caw of a crow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the hesitant song of a thrush.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is the tinkle of a cowbell far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the voice of a plowman on Shipley’s hill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The forest beyond the orchard is still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With midsummer stillness;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And along the road a wagon chuckles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loaded with corn, going to Atterbury.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And an old man sits under a tree asleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And an old woman crosses the road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coming from the orchard with a bucket of blackberries.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a boy lies in the grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Near the feet of the old man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And looks up at the sailing clouds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And longs, and longs, and longs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what, he knows not:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For manhood, for life, for the unknown world!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then thirty years passed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the boy returned worn out by life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found the orchard vanished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the forest gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the house made over,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the roadway filled with dust from automobiles⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And himself desiring The Hill!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="e-c-culbertson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">E. C. Culbertson</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Is it true, Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That in the hall-way of the New Court House</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is a tablet of bronze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Containing the embossed faces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Editor Whedon and Thomas Rhodes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And is it true that my successful labors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the County Board, without which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not one stone would have been placed on another,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the contributions out of my own pocket</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To build the temple, are but memories among the people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gradually fading away, and soon to descend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With them to this oblivion where I lie?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In truth, I can so believe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For it is a law of the Kingdom of Heaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That whoso enters the vineyard at the eleventh hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall receive a full day’s pay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it is a law of the Kingdom of this World</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That those who first oppose a good work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seize it and make it their own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the corner-stone is laid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And memorial tablets are erected.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="shack-dye" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Shack Dye</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The white men played all sorts of jokes on me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They took big fish off my hook</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And put little ones on, while I was away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Getting a stringer, and made me believe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hadn’t seen aright the fish I had caught.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Burr Robbins circus came to town</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They got the ring master to let a tame leopard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the ring, and made me believe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was whipping a wild beast like Samson</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I, for an offer of fifty dollars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dragged him out to his cage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One time I entered my blacksmith shop</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shook as I saw some horse-shoes crawling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the floor, as if alive⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walter Simmons had put a magnet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the barrel of water.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet everyone of you, you white men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was fooled about fish and about leopards too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you didn’t know any more than the horse-shoes did</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What moved you about Spoon River.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hildrup-tubbs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hildrup Tubbs</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I made two fights for the people.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First I left my party, bearing the gonfalon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of independence, for reform, and was defeated.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Next I used my rebel strength</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To capture the standard of my old party⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I captured it, but I was defeated.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discredited and discarded, misanthropical,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I turned to the solace of gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I used my remnant of power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fasten myself like a saprophyte</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the putrescent carcass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Thomas Rhodes’ bankrupt bank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As assignee of the fund.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Everyone now turned from me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My hair grew white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My purple lusts grew gray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tobacco and whisky lost their savor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for years Death ignored me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he does a hog.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="henry-tripp" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Henry Tripp</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The bank broke and I lost my savings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was sick of the tiresome game in Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I made up my mind to run away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leave my place in life and my family;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But just as the midnight train pulled in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick off the steps jumped Cully Green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Martin Vise, and began to fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To settle their ancient rivalry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Striking each other with fists that sounded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the blows of knotted clubs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now it seemed to me that Cully was winning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When his bloody face broke into a grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sickly cowardice, leaning on Martin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And whining out “We’re good friends, Mart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know that I’m your friend.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a terrible punch from Martin knocked him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around and around and into a heap.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then they arrested me as a witness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I lost my train and staid in Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wage my battle of life to the end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, Cully Green, you were my savior⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You, so ashamed and drooped for years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loitering listless about the streets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tying rags ’round your festering soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who failed to fight it out.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="granville-calhoun" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Granville Calhoun</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I wanted to be County Judge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One more term, so as to round out a service</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of thirty years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my friends left me and joined my enemies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they elected a new man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then a spirit of revenge seized me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I infected my four sons with it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I brooded upon retaliation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until the great physician, Nature,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smote me through with paralysis</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give my soul and body a rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did my sons get power and money?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did they serve the people or yoke them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To till and harvest fields of self?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For how could they ever forget</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My face at my bed-room window,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sitting helpless amid my golden cages</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of singing canaries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looking at the old courthouse?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="henry-c-calhoun" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Henry C. Calhoun</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I reached the highest place in Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But through what bitterness of spirit!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The face of my father, sitting speechless,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Child-like, watching his canaries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And looking at the courthouse window</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the county judge’s room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his admonitions to me to seek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My own in life, and punish Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To avenge the wrong the people did him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filled me with furious energy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To seek for wealth and seek for power.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what did he do but send me along</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The path that leads to the grove of the Furies?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I followed the path and I tell you this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the way to the grove you’ll pass the Fates,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shadow-eyed, bent over their weaving.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stop for a moment, and if you see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thread of revenge leap out of the shuttle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then quickly snatch from Atropos</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shears and cut it, lest your sons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the children of them and their children</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wear the envenomed robe.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="alfred-moir" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Alfred Moir</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Why was I not devoured by self-contempt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rotted down by indifference</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And impotent revolt like Indignation Jones?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, with all of my errant steps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did I miss the fate of Willard Fluke?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why, though I stood at Burchard’s bar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a sort of decoy for the house to the boys</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To buy the drinks, did the curse of drink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fall on me like rain that runs off,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving the soul of me dry and clean?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why did I never kill a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Jack McGuire?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But instead I mounted a little in life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I owe it all to a book I read.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But why did I go to Mason City,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I chanced to see the book in a window,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its garish cover luring my eye?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why did my soul respond to the book,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I read it over and over?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="perry-zoll" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Perry Zoll</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My thanks, friends of the County Scientific Association,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this modest boulder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And its little tablet of bronze.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twice I tried to join your honored body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was rejected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when my little brochure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the intelligence of plants</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Began to attract attention</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You almost voted me in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After that I grew beyond the need of you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your recognition.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet I do not reject your memorial stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing that I should, in so doing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deprive you of honor to yourselves.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dippold-the-optician" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dippold the Optician</h2>
				<p>
					<span>What do you see now?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Globes of red, yellow, purple.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just a moment! And now?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My father and mother and sisters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes! And now?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knights at arms, beautiful women, kind faces.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Try this.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A field of grain⁠—a city.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Very good! And now?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A young woman with angels bending over her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heavier lens! And now?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many women with bright eyes and open lips.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Try this.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just a goblet on a table.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh I see! Try this lens!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just an open space⁠—I see nothing in particular.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, now!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pine trees, a lake, a summer sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s better. And now?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A book.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Read a page for me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can’t. My eyes are carried beyond the page.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Try this lens.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Depths of air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Excellent! And now?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Light, just light, making everything below it a toy world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Very well, we’ll make the glasses accordingly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="magrady-graham" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Magrady Graham</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Tell me, was Altgeld elected Governor?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For when the returns began to come in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Cleveland was sweeping the East,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was too much for you, poor old heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who had striven for democracy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the long, long years of defeat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a watch that is worn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I felt you growing slower until you stopped.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell me, was Altgeld elected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what did he do?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did they bring his head on a platter to a dancer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or did he triumph for the people?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For when I saw him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And took his hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The child-like blueness of his eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moved me to tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there was an air of eternity about him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the cold, clear light that rests at dawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the hills!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="archibald-higbie" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Archibald Higbie</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I loathed you, Spoon River. I tried to rise above you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was ashamed of you. I despised you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the place of my nativity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there in Rome, among the artists,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speaking Italian, speaking French,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I seemed to myself at times to be free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of every trace of my origin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I seemed to be reaching the heights of art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to breathe the air that the masters breathed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to see the world with their eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But still they’d pass my work and say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What are you driving at, my friend?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes the face looks like Apollo’s,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At others it has a trace of Lincoln’s.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was no culture, you know, in Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I burned with shame and held my peace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what could I do, all covered over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And weighted down with western soil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except aspire, and pray for another</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Birth in the world, with all of Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rooted out of my soul?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tom-merritt" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Tom Merritt</h2>
				<p>
					<span>At first I suspected something⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She acted so calm and absent-minded.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one day I heard the back door shut,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I entered the front, and I saw him slink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back of the smokehouse into the lot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And run across the field.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I meant to kill him on sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that day, walking near Fourth Bridge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without a stick or a stone at hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All of a sudden I saw him standing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scared to death, holding his rabbits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all I could say was, “Don’t, Don’t, Don’t,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he aimed and fired at my heart.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-merritt" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Merritt</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Silent before the jury,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Returning no word to the judge when he asked me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I had aught to say against the sentence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only shaking my head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What could I say to people who thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a woman of thirty-five was at fault</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When her lover of nineteen killed her husband?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even though she had said to him over and over,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Go away, Elmer, go far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have maddened your brain with the gift of my body:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You will do some terrible thing.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And just as I feared, he killed my husband;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With which I had nothing to do, before God!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent for thirty years in prison!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the iron gates of Joliet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swung as the gray and silent trusties</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Carried me out in a coffin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="elmer-karr" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Elmer Karr</h2>
				<p>
					<span>What but the love of God could have softened</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made forgiving the people of Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toward me who wronged the bed of Thomas Merritt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And murdered him beside?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, loving hearts that took me in again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I returned from fourteen years in prison!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, helping hands that in the church received me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heard with tears my penitent confession,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who took the sacrament of bread and wine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Repent, ye living ones, and rest with Jesus.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="elizabeth-childers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Elizabeth Childers</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Dust of my dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dust with my dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, child who died as you entered the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dead with my death!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not knowing Breath, though you tried so hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a heart that beat when you lived with me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stopped when you left me for Life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is well, my child. For you never traveled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The long, long way that begins with school days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When little fingers blur under the tears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That fall on the crooked letters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the earliest wound, when a little mate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaves you alone for another;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sickness, and the face of Fear by the bed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The death of a father or mother;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or shame for them, or poverty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The maiden sorrow of school days ended;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And eyeless Nature that makes you drink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the cup of Love, though you know it’s poisoned;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To whom would your flower-face have been lifted?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Botanist, weakling? Cry of what blood to yours?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pure or foul, for it makes no matter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s blood that calls to our blood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then your children⁠—oh, what might they be?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what your sorrow? Child! Child!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death is better than Life!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="edith-conant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Edith Conant</h2>
				<p>
					<span>We stand about this place⁠—we, the memories;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shade our eyes because we dread to read:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“June 17th, 1884, aged 21 years and 3 days.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all things are changed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we⁠—we, the memories, stand here for ourselves alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For no eye marks us, or would know why we are here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your husband is dead, your sister lives far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your father is bent with age;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has forgotten you, he scarcely leaves the house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Any more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No one remembers your exquisite face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your lyric voice!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How you sang, even on the morning you were stricken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With piercing sweetness, with thrilling sorrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the advent of the child which died with you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is all forgotten, save by us, the memories,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who are forgotten by the world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All is changed, save the river and the hill⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even they are changed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only the burning sun and the quiet stars are the same.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we⁠—we, the memories, stand here in awe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our eyes closed with the weariness of tears⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In immeasurable weariness!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="charles-webster" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Charles Webster</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The pine woods on the hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the farmhouse miles away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Showed clear as though behind a lens</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under a sky of peacock blue!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a blanket of cloud by afternoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Muffled the earth. And you walked the road</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the clover field, where the only sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was the cricket’s liquid tremolo.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the sun went down between great drifts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of distant storms. For a rising wind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swept clean the sky and blew the flames</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the unprotected stars;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swayed the russet moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hanging between the rim of the hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the twinkling boughs of the apple orchard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You walked the shore in thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the throats of the waves were like whip-poor-wills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Singing beneath the water and crying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the wash of the wind in the cedar trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till you stood, too full for tears, by the cot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And looking up saw Jupiter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tipping the spire of the giant pine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And looking down saw my vacant chair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rocked by the wind on the lonely porch⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be brave, Beloved!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="father-malloy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Father Malloy</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You are over there, Father Malloy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where holy ground is, and the cross marks every grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not here with us on the hill⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us of wavering faith, and clouded vision</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drifting hope, and unforgiven sins.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were so human, Father Malloy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taking a friendly glass sometimes with us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Siding with us who would rescue Spoon River</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the coldness and the dreariness of village morality.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were like a traveler who brings a little box of sand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the wastes about the pyramids</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And makes them real and Egypt real.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were a part of and related to a great past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet you were so close to many of us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You believed in the joy of life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You did not seem to be ashamed of the flesh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You faced life as it is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as it changes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some of us almost came to you, Father Malloy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing how your church had divined the heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And provided for it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through Peter the Flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peter the Rock.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ami-green" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ami Green</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Not “a youth with hoary head and haggard eye,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But an old man with a smooth skin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And black hair!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had the face of a boy as long as I lived,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for years a soul that was stiff and bent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a world which saw me just as a jest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be hailed familiarly when it chose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loaded up as a man when it chose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Being neither man nor boy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In truth it was soul as well as body</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which never matured, and I say to you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the much-sought prize of eternal youth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is just arrested growth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="calvin-campbell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Calvin Campbell</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Ye who are kicking against Fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell me how it is that on this hill-side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Running down to the river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which fronts the sun and the south-wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This plant draws from the air and soil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poison and becomes poison ivy?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this plant draws from the same air and soil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet elixirs and colors and becomes arbutus?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And both flourish?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You may blame Spoon River for what it is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But whom do you blame for the will in you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That feeds itself and makes you dock-weed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jimpson, dandelion or mullen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And which can never use any soil or air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So as to make you jessamine or wistaria?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="henry-layton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Henry Layton</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Whoever thou art who passest by</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know that my father was gentle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my mother was violent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While I was born the whole of such hostile halves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not intermixed and fused,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But each distinct, feebly soldered together.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some of you saw me as gentle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some as violent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some as both.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But neither half of me wrought my ruin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the falling asunder of halves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never a part of each other,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That left me a lifeless soul.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="harlan-sewall" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Harlan Sewall</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You never understood, O unknown one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why it was I repaid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your devoted friendship and delicate ministrations</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First with diminished thanks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Afterward by gradually withdrawing my presence from you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that I might not be compelled to thank you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then with silence which followed upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our final Separation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You had cured my diseased soul. But to cure it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You saw my disease, you knew my secret,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that is why I fled from you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For though when our bodies rise from pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We kiss forever the watchful hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That gave us wormwood, while we shudder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For thinking of the wormwood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A soul that’s cured is a different matter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For there we’d blot from memory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soft-toned words, the searching eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stand forever oblivious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not so much of the sorrow itself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As of the hand that healed it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ippolit-konovaloff" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ippolit Konovaloff</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was a gun-smith in Odessa.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One night the police broke in the room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where a group of us were reading Spencer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seized our books and arrested us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I escaped and came to New York</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thence to Chicago, and then to Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I could study my Kant in peace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And eke out a living repairing guns!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look at my moulds! My architectonics!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One for a barrel, one for a hammer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And others for other parts of a gun!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, now suppose no gun-smith living</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had anything else but duplicate moulds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of these I show you⁠—well, all guns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would be just alike, with a hammer to hit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cap and a barrel to carry the shot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All acting alike for themselves, and all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Acting against each other alike.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there would be your world of guns!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which nothing could ever free from itself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except a Moulder with different moulds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To mould the metal over.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="henry-phipps" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Henry Phipps</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was the Sunday school superintendent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dummy president of the wagon works</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the canning factory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Acting for Thomas Rhodes and the banking clique;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My son the cashier of the bank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wedded to Rhodes’ daughter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My week days spent in making money,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My Sundays at church and in prayer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In everything a cog in the wheel of things-as-they-are:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of money, master and man, made white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the paint of the Christian creed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bank collapsed. I stood and looked at the wrecked machine⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wheels with blow-holes stopped with putty and painted;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rotten bolts, the broken rods;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only the hopper for souls fit to be used again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a new devourer of life, When newspapers, judges and money-magicians</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Build over again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was stripped to the bone, but I lay in the Rock of Ages,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing now through the game, no longer a dupe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knowing “the upright shall dwell in the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the years of the wicked shall be shortened.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then suddenly, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Meyers discovered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cancer in my liver.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was not, after all, the particular care of God!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, even thus standing on a peak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the mists through which I had climbed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ready for larger life in the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eternal forces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moved me on with a push.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="harry-wilmans" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Harry Wilmans</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was just turned twenty-one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Henry Phipps, the Sunday school superintendent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made a speech in Bindle’s Opera House.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The honor of the flag must be upheld,” he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Whether it be assailed by a barbarous tribe of Tagalogs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or the greatest power in Europe.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we cheered and cheered the speech and the flag he waved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he spoke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I went to the war in spite of my father,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And followed the flag till I saw it raised</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By our camp in a rice field near Manila,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all of us cheered and cheered it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there were flies and poisonous things;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there was the deadly water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the cruel heat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sickening, putrid food;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the smell of the trench just back of the tents</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the soldiers went to empty themselves;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there were the whores who followed us, full of syphilis;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beastly acts between ourselves or alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With bullying, hatred, degradation among us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And days of loathing and nights of fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the hour of the charge through the steaming swamp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Following the flag,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I fell with a scream, shot through the guts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now there’s a flag over me in Spoon River!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A flag! A flag!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="john-wasson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">John Wasson</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Oh! the dew-wet grass of the meadow in North Carolina</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through which Rebecca followed me wailing, wailing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One child in her arms, and three that ran along wailing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lengthening out the farewell to me off to the war with the British,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the long, hard years down to the day of Yorktown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then my search for Rebecca,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finding her at last in Virginia,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two children dead in the meanwhile.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We went by oxen to Tennessee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thence after years to Illinois,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last to Spoon River.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We cut the buffalo grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We felled the forests,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We built the school houses, built the bridges,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leveled the roads and tilled the fields</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone with poverty, scourges, death⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Harry Wilmans who fought the Filipinos</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is to have a flag on his grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take it from mine.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="many-soldiers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Many Soldiers</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The idea danced before us as a flag;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sound of martial music;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thrill of carrying a gun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Advancement in the world on coming home;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A glint of glory, wrath for foes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dream of duty to country or to God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But these were things in ourselves, shining before us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were not the power behind us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which was the Almighty hand of Life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like fire at earth’s center making mountains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or pent up waters that cut them through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you remember the iron band</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blacksmith, Shack Dye, welded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around the oak on Bennet’s lawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From which to swing a hammock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That daughter Janet might repose in, reading</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On summer afternoons?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that the growing tree at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sundered the iron band?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not a cell in all the tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knew aught save that it thrilled with life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor cared because the hammock fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the dust with Milton’s Poems.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="godwin-james" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Godwin James</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Harry Wilmans! You who fell in a swamp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Near Manila, following the flag,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were not wounded by the greatness of a dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or destroyed by ineffectual work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or driven to madness by Satanic snags;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were not torn by aching nerves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor did you carry great wounds to your old age.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You did not starve, for the government fed you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You did not suffer yet cry “forward”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To an army which you led</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against a foe with mocking smiles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sharper than bayonets. You were not smitten down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By invisible bombs. You were not rejected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By those for whom you were defeated.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You did not eat the savorless bread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which a poor alchemy had made from ideals.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You went to Manila, Harry Wilmans,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While I enlisted in the bedraggled army</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of bright-eyed, divine youths,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who surged forward, who were driven back and fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sick, broken, crying, shorn of faith,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Following the flag of the Kingdom of Heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You and I, Harry Wilmans, have fallen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In our several ways, not knowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good from bad, defeat from victory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor what face it is that smiles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind the demoniac mask.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lyman-king" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lyman King</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You may think, passer-by, that Fate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is a pit-fall outside of yourself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around which you may walk by the use of foresight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wisdom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus you believe, viewing the lives of other men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As one who in God-like fashion bends over an anthill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing how their difficulties could be avoided.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But pass on into life:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In time you shall see Fate approach you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the shape of your own image in the mirror;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or you shall sit alone by your own hearth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And suddenly the chair by you shall hold a guest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you shall know that guest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And read the authentic message of his eyes.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="caroline-branson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Caroline Branson</h2>
				<p>
					<span>With our hearts like drifting suns, had we but walked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As often before, the April fields till star-light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silkened over with viewless gauze the darkness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the cliff, our trysting place in the wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the brook turns! Had we but passed from wooing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like notes of music that run together, into winning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the inspired improvisation of love!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But to put back of us as a canticle ended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rapt enchantment of the flesh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In which our souls swooned, down, down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where time was not, nor space, nor ourselves⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Annihilated in love!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To leave these behind for a room with lamps:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to stand with our Secret mocking itself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hiding itself amid flowers and mandolins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stared at by all between salad and coffee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to see him tremble, and feel myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prescient, as one who signs a bond⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not flaming with gifts and pledges heaped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With rosy hands over his brow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then, O night! deliberate! unlovely!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all of our wooing blotted out by the winning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a chosen room in an hour that was known to all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Next day he sat so listless, almost cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So strangely changed, wondering why I wept,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till a kind of sick despair and voluptuous madness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seized us to make the pact of death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A stalk of the earth-sphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frail as star-light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waiting to be drawn once again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into creation’s stream.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But next time to be given birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gazed at by Raphael and <abbr>St.</abbr> Francis</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes as they pass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I am their little brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be known clearly face to face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through a cycle of birth hereafter run.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You may know the seed and the soil;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You may feel the cold rain fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But only the earth-sphere, only heaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knows the secret of the seed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the nuptial chamber under the soil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throw me into the stream again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give me another trial⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save me, Shelley!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="anne-rutledge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Anne Rutledge</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Out of me unworthy and unknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vibrations of deathless music;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“With malice toward none, with charity for all.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of me the forgiveness of millions toward millions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the beneficent face of a nation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shining with justice and truth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am Anne Rutledge who sleep beneath these weeds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beloved in life of Abraham Lincoln,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wedded to him, not through union,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But through separation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bloom forever, O Republic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the dust of my bosom!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hamlet-micure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hamlet Micure</h2>
				<p>
					<span>In a lingering fever many visions come to you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was in the little house again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its great yard of clover</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Running down to the board-fence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shadowed by the oak tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where we children had our swing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet the little house was a manor hall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Set in a lawn, and by the lawn was the sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was in the room where little Paul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strangled from diphtheria,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But yet it was not this room⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was a sunny verandah enclosed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mullioned windows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a chair sat a man in a dark cloak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a face like Euripides.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had come to visit me, or I had gone to visit him⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could not tell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We could hear the beat of the sea, the clover nodded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under a summer wind, and little Paul came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With clover blossoms to the window and smiled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I said: “What is ‘divine despair’ Alfred?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Have you read ‘Tears, Idle Tears’?” he asked.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Yes, but you do not there express divine despair.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“My poor friend,” he answered, “that was why the despair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was divine.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mabel-osborne" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Mabel Osborne</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Your red blossoms amid green leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are drooping, beautiful geranium!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you do not ask for water.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cannot speak! You do not need to speak⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Everyone knows that you are dying of thirst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet they do not bring water!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They pass on, saying:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The geranium wants water.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I, who had happiness to share</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And longed to share your happiness;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I who loved you, Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And craved your love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Withered before your eyes, Spoon River⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thirsting, thirsting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Voiceless from chasteness of soul to ask you for love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You who knew and saw me perish before you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like this geranium which someone has planted over me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left to die.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="william-h-herndon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">William H. Herndon</h2>
				<p>
					<span>There by the window in the old house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perched on the bluff, overlooking miles of valley,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My days of labor closed, sitting out life’s decline,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Day by day did I look in my memory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As one who gazes in an enchantress’ crystal globe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I saw the figures of the past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if in a pageant glassed by a shining dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Move through the incredible sphere of time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I saw a man arise from the soil like a fabled giant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And throw himself over a deathless destiny,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Master of great armies, head of the republic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bringing together into a dithyramb of recreative song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The epic hopes of a people;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the same time Vulcan of sovereign fires,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where imperishable shields and swords were beaten out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From spirits tempered in heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look in the crystal! See how he hastens on</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the place where his path comes up to the path</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a child of Plutarch and Shakespeare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Lincoln, actor indeed, playing well your part,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Booth, who strode in a mimic play within the play,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Often and often I saw you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the cawing crows winged their way to the wood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over my house-top at solemn sunsets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There by my window,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rebecca-wasson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Rebecca Wasson</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Spring and Summer, Fall and Winter and Spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After each other drifting, past my window drifting!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I lay so many years watching them drift and counting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The years till a terror came in my heart at times,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the feeling that I had become eternal; at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My hundredth year was reached! And still I lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hearing the tick of the clock, and the low of cattle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the scream of a jay flying through falling leaves!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Day after day alone in a room of the house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a daughter-in-law stricken with age and gray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by night, or looking out of the window by day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My thought ran back, it seemed, through infinite time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To North Carolina and all my girlhood days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And John, my John, away to the war with the British,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the children, the deaths, and all the sorrows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that stretch of years like a prairie in Illinois</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through which great figures passed like hurrying horsemen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Washington, Jefferson, Jackson, Webster, Clay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O beautiful young republic for whom my John and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gave all of our strength and love!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And O my John!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, when I lay so helpless in bed for years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Praying for you to come, was your coming delayed?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing that with a cry of rapture, like that I uttered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you found me in old Virginia after the war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cried when I beheld you there by the bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the sun stood low in the west growing smaller and fainter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the light of your face!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rutherford-mcdowell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Rutherford McDowell</h2>
				<p>
					<span>They brought me ambrotypes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the old pioneers to enlarge.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sometimes one sat for me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some one who was in being</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When giant hands from the womb of the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tore the republic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What was it in their eyes?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I could never fathom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mystical pathos of drooped eyelids,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the serene sorrow of their eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was like a pool of water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid oak trees at the edge of a forest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the leaves fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As you hear the crow of a cock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From a far-off farm house, seen near the hills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the third generation lives, and the strong men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the strong women are gone and forgotten.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And these grand-children and great grand-children</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the pioneers!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Truly did my camera record their faces, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With so much of the old strength gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the old faith gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the old mastery of life gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the old courage gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which labors and loves and suffers and sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the sun!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hannah-armstrong" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hannah Armstrong</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I wrote him a letter asking him for old times’ sake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To discharge my sick boy from the army;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But maybe he couldn’t read it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I went to town and had James Garber,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who wrote beautifully, write him a letter;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But maybe that was lost in the mails.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I traveled all the way to Washington.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was more than an hour finding the White House.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I found it they turned me away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hiding their smiles. Then I thought:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Oh, well, he ain’t the same as when I boarded him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he and my husband worked together</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all of us called him Abe, there in Menard.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a last attempt I turned to a guard and said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Please say it’s old Aunt Hannah Armstrong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Illinois, come to see him about her sick boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the army.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, just in a moment they let me in!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when he saw me he broke in a laugh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dropped his business as president,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wrote in his own hand Doug’s discharge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Talking the while of the early days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And telling stories.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lucinda-matlock" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lucinda Matlock</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I went to the dances at Chandlerville,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And played snap-out at Winchester.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One time we changed partners,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Driving home in the moonlight of middle June,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then I found Davis.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We were married and lived together for seventy years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enjoying, working, raising the twelve children,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eight of whom we lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere I had reached the age of sixty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I spun, I wove, I kept the house, I nursed the sick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I made the garden, and for holiday</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rambled over the fields where sang the larks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by Spoon River gathering many a shell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many a flower and medicinal weed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shouting to the wooded hills, singing to the green valleys.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At ninety-six I had lived enough, that is all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And passed to a sweet repose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is this I hear of sorrow and weariness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anger, discontent and drooping hopes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Degenerate sons and daughters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Life is too strong for you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It takes life to love Life.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="davis-matlock" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Davis Matlock</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Suppose it is nothing but the hive:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That there are drones and workers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And queens, and nothing but storing honey⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Material things as well as culture and wisdom)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the next generation, this generation never living,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except as it swarms in the sunlight of youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strengthening its wings on what has been gathered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tasting, on the way to the hive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the clover field, the delicate spoil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suppose all this, and suppose the truth:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the nature of man is greater</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than nature’s need in the hive;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you must bear the burden of life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well as the urge from your spirit’s excess⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, I say to live it out like a god</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sure of immortal life, though you are in doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the way to live it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If that doesn’t make God proud of you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then God is nothing but gravitation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or sleep is the golden goal.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="herman-altman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Herman Altman</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Did I follow Truth wherever she led,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stand against the whole world for a cause,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And uphold the weak against the strong?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I did I would be remembered among men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I was known in life among the people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as I was hated and loved on earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therefore, build no monument to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And carve no bust for me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest, though I become not a demi-god,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The reality of my soul be lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that thieves and liars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who were my enemies and destroyed me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the children of thieves and liars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May claim me and affirm before my bust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they stood with me in the days of my defeat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Build me no monument</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest my memory be perverted to the uses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of lying and oppression.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My lovers and their children must not be dispossessed of me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would be the untarnished possession forever</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of those for whom I lived.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jennie-m-grew" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jennie M’Grew</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Not, where the stairway turns in the dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hooded figure, shriveled under a flowing cloak!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not yellow eyes in the room at night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Staring out from a surface of cobweb gray!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not the flap of a condor wing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the roar of life in your ears begins</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a sound heard never before!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But on a sunny afternoon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By a country road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where purple rag-weeds bloom along a straggling fence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the field is gleaned, and the air is still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see against the sunlight something black,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a blot with an iris rim⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is the sign to eyes of second sight⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that I saw!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="columbus-cheney" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Columbus Cheney</h2>
				<p>
					<span>This weeping willow!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why do you not plant a few</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the millions of children not yet born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well as for us?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are they not non-existent, or cells asleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without mind?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or do they come to earth, their birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rupturing the memory of previous being?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Answer! The field of unexplored intuition is yours.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But in any case why not plant willows for them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well as for us?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="wallace-ferguson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Wallace Ferguson</h2>
				<p>
					<span>There at Geneva where <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Blanc floated above</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wine-hued lake like a cloud, when a breeze was blown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of an empty sky of blue, and the roaring Rhone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hurried under the bridge through chasms of rock;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the music along the cafes was part of the splendor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dancing water under a torrent of light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the purer part of the genius of Jean Rousseau</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was the silent music of all we saw or heard⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There at Geneva, I say, was the rapture less</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because I could not link myself with the I of yore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When twenty years before I wandered about Spoon River?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor remember what I was nor what I felt?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We live in the hour all free of the hours gone by.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therefore, O soul, if you lose yourself in death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wake in some Geneva by some <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Blanc,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What do you care if you know not yourself as the you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who lived and loved in a little corner of earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Known as Spoon River ages and ages vanished?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="marie-bateson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Marie Bateson</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You observe the carven hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the index finger pointing heavenward.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is the direction, no doubt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But how shall one follow it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is well to abstain from murder and lust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To forgive, do good to others, worship God</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without graven images.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But these are external means after all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By which you chiefly do good to yourself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The inner kernel is freedom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is light, purity⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Find the goal or lose it, according to your vision.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tennessee-claflin-shope" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Tennessee Claflin Shope</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was the laughing-stock of the village,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chiefly of the people of good sense, as they call themselves⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Also of the learned, like <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Peet, who read Greek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The same as English.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For instead of talking free trade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or preaching some form of baptism;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Instead of believing in the efficacy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of walking cracks⁠—picking up pins the right way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing the new moon over the right shoulder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or curing rheumatism with blue glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I asserted the sovereignty of my own soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before Mary Baker G. Eddy even got started</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With what she called science</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had mastered the “Bhagavad Gita,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cured my soul, before Mary</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Began to cure bodies with souls⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peace to all worlds!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="plymouth-rock-joe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Plymouth Rock Joe</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Why are you running so fast hither and thither</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chasing midges or butterflies?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some of you are standing solemnly scratching for grubs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some of you are waiting for corn to be scattered.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is life, is it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cock-a-doodle-do! Very well, Thomas Rhodes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are cock of the walk no doubt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But here comes Elliott Hawkins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gluck, Gluck, Gluck, attracting political followers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quah! quah! quah! why so poetical, Minerva,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This gray morning?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kittie⁠—quah⁠—quah! for shame, Lucius Atherton,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The raucous squawk you evoked from the throat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Aner Clute will be taken up later</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Benjamin Pantier as a cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of votes for women: Ka dook⁠—dook!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What inspiration has come to you, Margaret Fuller Slack?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why does your gooseberry eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flit so liquidly, Tennessee Claflin Shope?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you trying to fathom the esotericism of an egg?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your voice is very metallic this morning, Hortense Robbins⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Almost like a guinea hen’s!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quah! That was a guttural sigh, Isaiah Beethoven;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did you see the shadow of the hawk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or did you step upon the drumsticks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which the cook threw out this morning?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be chivalric, heroic, or aspiring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Metaphysical, religious, or rebellious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall never get out of the barnyard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except by way of over the fence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mixed with potato peelings and such into the trough!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="imanuel-ehrenhardt" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Imanuel Ehrenhardt</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I began with Sir William Hamilton’s lectures.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then studied Dugald Stewart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then John Locke on the Understanding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then Descartes, Fichte and Schelling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kant and then Schopenhauer⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Books I borrowed from old Judge Somers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All read with rapturous industry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hoping it was reserved to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To grasp the tail of the ultimate secret,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drag it out of its hole.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul flew up ten thousand miles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only the moon looked a little bigger.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I fell back, how glad of the earth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All through the soul of William Jones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who showed me a letter of John Muir.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="samuel-gardner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Samuel Gardner</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I who kept the greenhouse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lover of trees and flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oft in life saw this umbrageous elm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Measuring its generous branches with my eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And listened to its rejoicing leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lovingly patting each other</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sweet aeolian whispers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And well they might:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the roots had grown so wide and deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the soil of the hill could not withhold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aught of its virtue, enriched by rain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And warmed by the sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But yielded it all to the thrifty roots,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through which it was drawn and whirled to the trunk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thence to the branches, and into the leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherefrom the breeze took life and sang.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I, an under-tenant of the earth, can see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the branches of a tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread no wider than its roots.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how shall the soul of a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be larger than the life he has lived?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dow-kritt" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dow Kritt</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Samuel is forever talking of his elm⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I did not need to die to learn about roots:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, who dug all the ditches about Spoon River.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look at my elm!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprung from as good a seed as his,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sown at the same time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is dying at the top:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not from lack of life, nor fungus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor destroying insect, as the sexton thinks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look, Samuel, where the roots have struck rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And can no further spread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the while the top of the tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is tiring itself out, and dying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trying to grow.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="william-jones" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">William Jones</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Once in a while a curious weed unknown to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Needing a name from my books;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once in a while a letter from Yeomans.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the mussel-shells gathered along the shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes a pearl with a glint like meadow rue:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then betimes a letter from Tyndall in England,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stamped with the stamp of Spoon River.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, lover of Nature, beloved for my love of her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held such converse afar with the great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knew her better than I.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, there is neither lesser nor greater,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save as we make her greater and win from her keener delight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With shells from the river cover me, cover me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I lived in wonder, worshipping earth and heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have passed on the march eternal of endless life.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="william-goode" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">William Goode</h2>
				<p>
					<span>To all in the village I seemed, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To go this way and that way, aimlessly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But here by the river you can see at twilight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soft-winged bats fly zig-zag here and there⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They must fly so to catch their food.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if you have ever lost your way at night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the deep wood near Miller’s Ford,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dodged this way and now that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherever the light of the Milky Way shone through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trying to find the path,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You should understand I sought the way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With earnest zeal, and all my wanderings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were wanderings in the quest.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="j-milton-miles" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">J. Milton Miles</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Whenever the Presbyterian bell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was rung by itself, I knew it as the Presbyterian bell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when its sound was mingled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the sound of the Methodist, the Christian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Baptist and the Congregational,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could no longer distinguish it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor any one from the others, or either of them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as many voices called to me in life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marvel not that I could not tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The true from the false,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor even, at last, the voice that I should have known.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="faith-matheny" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Faith Matheny</h2>
				<p>
					<span>At first you will know not what they mean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you may never know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we may never tell you:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These sudden flashes in your soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like lambent lightning on snowy clouds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At midnight when the moon is full.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They come in solitude, or perhaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You sit with your friend, and all at once</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A silence falls on speech, and his eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without a flicker glow at you:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You two have seen the secret together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sees it in you, and you in him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there you sit thrilling lest the Mystery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand before you and strike you dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a splendor like the sun’s.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be brave, all souls who have such visions!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As your body’s alive as mine is dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’re catching a little whiff of the ether</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reserved for God Himself.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="scholfield-hurley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Scholfield Hurley</h2>
				<p>
					<span>God! ask me not to record your wonders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I admit the stars and the suns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the countless worlds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I have measured their distances</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And weighed them and discovered their substances.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have devised wings for the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And keels for water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And horses of iron for the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have lengthened the vision you gave me a million times,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the hearing you gave me a million times,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have leaped over space with speech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And taken fire for light out of the air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have built great cities and bored through the hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bridged majestic waters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have written the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Iliad</i> and <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Hamlet</i>;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I have explored your mysteries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And searched for you without ceasing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found you again after losing you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hours of weariness⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I ask you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How would you like to create a sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the next day have the worms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slipping in and out between your fingers?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="willie-metcalf" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Willie Metcalf</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was Willie Metcalf.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They used to call me “Doctor Meyers”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because, they said, I looked like him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he was my father, according to Jack McGuire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I lived in the livery stable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleeping on the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Side by side with Roger Baughman’s bulldog,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or sometimes in a stall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could crawl between the legs of the wildest horses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without getting kicked⁠—we knew each other.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On spring days I tramped through the country</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get the feeling, which I sometimes lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I was not a separate thing from the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I used to lose myself, as if in sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By lying with eyes half-open in the woods.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes I taIked with animals⁠—even toads and snakes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anything that had an eye to look into.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once I saw a stone in the sunshine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trying to turn into jelly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In April days in this cemetery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dead people gathered all about me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And grew still, like a congregation in silent prayer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never knew whether I was a part of the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With flowers growing in me, or whether I walked⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I know.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="willie-pennington" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Willie Pennington</h2>
				<p>
					<span>They called me the weakling, the simpleton,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my brothers were strong and beautiful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While I, the last child of parents who had aged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inherited only their residue of power.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they, my brothers, were eaten up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the fury of the flesh, which I had not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made pulp in the activity of the senses, which I had not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hardened by the growth of the lusts, which I had not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though making names and riches for themselves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I, the weak one, the simpleton,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resting in a little corner of life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw a vision, and through me many saw the vision,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not knowing it was through me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus a tree sprang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From me, a mustard seed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-village-atheist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Village Atheist</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Ye young debaters over the doctrine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the soul’s immortality</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I who lie here was the village atheist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Talkative, contentious, versed in the arguments</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the infidels.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But through a long sickness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coughing myself to death</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I read the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Upanishads</i> and the poetry of Jesus.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they lighted a torch of hope and intuition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And desire which the Shadow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leading me swiftly through the caverns of darkness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could not extinguish.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Listen to me, ye who live in the senses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And think through the senses only:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Immortality is not a gift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Immortality is an achievement;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only those who strive mightily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall possess it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="john-ballard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">John Ballard</h2>
				<p>
					<span>In the lust of my strength</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cursed God, but he paid no attention to me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I might as well have cursed the stars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my last sickness I was in agony, but I was resolute</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I cursed God for my suffering;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still He paid no attention to me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He left me alone, as He had always done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I might as well have cursed the Presbyterian steeple.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, as I grew weaker, a terror came over me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps I had alienated God by cursing him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One day Lydia Humphrey brought me a bouquet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it occurred to me to try to make friends with God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I tried to make friends with Him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I might as well have tried to make friends with the bouquet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I was very close to the secret,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I really could make friends with the bouquet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By holding close to me the love in me for the bouquet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so I was creeping upon the secret, but⁠—</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="julian-scott" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Julian Scott</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Toward the last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The truth of others was untruth to me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The justice of others injustice to me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their reasons for death, reasons with me for life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their reasons for life, reasons with me for death;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would have killed those they saved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And save those they killed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I saw how a god, if brought to earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must act out what he saw and thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And could not live in this world of men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And act among them side by side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without continual clashes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dust’s for crawling, heaven’s for flying⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherefore, O soul, whose wings are grown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soar upward to the sun!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="alfonso-churchill" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Alfonso Churchill</h2>
				<p>
					<span>They laughed at me as “<abbr>Prof.</abbr> Moon,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a boy in Spoon River, born with the thirst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of knowing about the stars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They jeered when I spoke of the lunar mountains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the thrilling heat and cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the ebon valleys by silver peaks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Spica quadrillions of miles away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the littleness of man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now that my grave is honored, friends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let it not be because I taught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lore of the stars in Knox College,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But rather for this: that through the stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I preached the greatness of man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who is none the less a part of the scheme of things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the distance of Spica or the Spiral Nebulae;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor any the less a part of the question</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what the drama means.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="zilpha-marsh" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Zilpha Marsh</h2>
				<p>
					<span>At four o’clock in late October</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat alone in the country school-house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back from the road ’mid stricken fields,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And an eddy of wind blew leaves on the pane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crooned in the flue of the cannon-stove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its open door blurring the shadows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the spectral glow of a dying fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In an idle mood I was running the planchette⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All at once my wrist grew limp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my hand moved rapidly over the board,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the name of “Charles Guiteau” was spelled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who threatened to materialize before me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I rose and fled from the room bare-headed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the dusk, afraid of my gift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And after that the spirits swarmed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chaucer, Caesar, Poe and Marlowe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cleopatra and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Surratt⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherever I went, with messages⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mere trifling twaddle, Spoon River agreed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You talk nonsense to children, don’t you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And suppose I see what you never saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And never heard of and have no word for,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must talk nonsense when you ask me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What it is I see!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="james-garber" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">James Garber</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Do you remember, passer-by, the path</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wore across the lot where now stands the opera house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hasting with swift feet to work through many years?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take its meaning to heart:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You too may walk, after the hills at Miller’s Ford</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seem no longer far away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long after you see them near at hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond four miles of meadow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And after woman’s love is silent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saying no more: “l will save you.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And after the faces of friends and kindred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Become as faded photographs, pitifully silent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sad for the look which means: “We cannot help you.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And after you no longer reproach mankind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With being in league against your soul’s uplifted hands⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Themselves compelled at midnight and at noon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To watch with steadfast eye their destinies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After you have these understandings, think of me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of my path, who walked therein and knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That neither man nor woman, neither toil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor duty, gold nor power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can ease the longing of the soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loneliness of the soul!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lydia-humphrey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lydia Humphrey</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Back and forth, back and forth, to and from the church,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my Bible under my arm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Till I was gray and old;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unwedded, alone in the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finding brothers and sisters in the congregation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And children in the church.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know they laughed and thought me queer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knew of the eagle souls that flew high in the sunlight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the spire of the church, and laughed at the church,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Disdaining me, not seeing me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if the high air was sweet to them, sweet was the church to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the vision, vision, vision of the poets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Democratized!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="le-roy-goldman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Le Roy Goldman</h2>
				<p>
					<span>“What will you do when you come to die,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If all your life long you have rejected Jesus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And know as you lie there, He is not your friend?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over and over I said, I, the revivalist.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, yes! but there are friends and friends.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blessed are you, say I, who know all now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You who have lost, ere you pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A father or mother, or old grandfather or mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some beautiful soul that lived life strongly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knew you all through, and loved you ever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who would not fail to speak for you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give God an intimate view of your soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As only one of your flesh could do it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is the hand your hand will reach for,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lead you along the corridor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the court where you are a stranger!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="gustav-richter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Gustav Richter</h2>
				<p>
					<span>After a long day of work in my hot-houses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleep was sweet, but if you sleep on your left side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your dreams may be abruptly ended.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was among my flowers where some one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed to be raising them on trial,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if after-while to be transplanted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a larger garden of freer air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was disembodied vision</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid a light, as it were the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had floated in and touched the roof of glass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a toy balloon and softly bursted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And etherealized in golden air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all was silence, except the splendor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was immanent with thought as clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a speaking voice, and I, as thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could hear a Presence think as he walked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between the boxes pinching off leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looking for bugs and noting values,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an eye that saw it all:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Homer, oh yes! Pericles, good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caesar Borgia, what shall be done with it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dante, too much manure, perhaps.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Napoleon, leave him awhile as yet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shelley, more soil. Shakespeare, needs spraying⁠—”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clouds, eh!⁠—</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="arlo-will" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Arlo Will</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Did you ever see an alligator</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come up to the air from the mud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Staring blindly under the full glare of noon?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have you seen the stabled horses at night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tremble and start back at the sight of a lantern?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have you ever walked in darkness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When an unknown door was open before you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you stood, it seemed, in the light of a thousand candles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of delicate wax?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have you walked with the wind in your ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sunlight about you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found it suddenly shine with an inner splendor?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the mud many times,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before many doors of light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through many fields of splendor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where around your steps a soundless glory scatters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like new-fallen snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will you go through earth, O strong of soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through unnumbered heavens</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the final flame!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="captain-orlando-killion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Captain Orlando Killion</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, you young radicals and dreamers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You dauntless fledglings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who pass by my headstone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mock not its record of my captaincy in the army</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my faith in God!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are not denials of each other.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go by reverently, and read with sober care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How a great people, riding with defiant shouts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The centaur of Revolution,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spurred and whipped to frenzy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shook with terror, seeing the mist of the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the precipice they were nearing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fell from his back in precipitate awe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To celebrate the Feast of the Supreme Being.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moved by the same sense of vast reality</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of life and death, and burdened as they were</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the fate of a race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How was I, a little blasphemer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caught in the drift of a nation’s unloosened flood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To remain a blasphemer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a captain in the army?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jeremy-carlisle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jeremy Carlisle</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Passer-by, sin beyond any sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the sin of blindness of souls to other souls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And joy beyond any joy is the joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of having the good in you seen, and seeing the good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the miraculous moment!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here I confess to a lofty scorn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And an acrid skepticism.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But do you remember the liquid that Penniwit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poured on tintypes, making them blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a mist like hickory smoke?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then how the picture began to clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the face came forth like life?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So you appeared to me, neglected ones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And enemies too, as I went along</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my face growing clearer to you as yours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grew clearer to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We were ready then to walk together</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sing in chorus and chant the dawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of life that is wholly life.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="joseph-dixon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Joseph Dixon</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Who carved this shattered harp on my stone?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I died to you, no doubt. But how many harps and pianos</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wired I and tightened and disentangled for you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Making them sweet again⁠—with tuning fork or without?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh well! A harp leaps out of the ear of a man, you say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But whence the ear that orders the length of the strings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a magic of numbers flying before your thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through a door that closes against your breathless wonder?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is there no Ear round the ear of a man, that it senses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through strings and columns of air the soul of sound?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thrill as I call it a tuning fork that catches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The waves of mingled music and light from afar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The antennae of Thought that listens through utmost space.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surely the concord that ruled my spirit is proof</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an Ear that tuned me, able to tune me over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And use me again if I am worthy to use.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judson-stoddard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Judson Stoddard</h2>
				<p>
					<span>On a mountain top above the clouds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That streamed like a sea below me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said that peak is the thought of Buddha,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that one is the prayer of Jesus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this one is the dream of Plato,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that one there the song of Dante,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this is Kant and this is Newton,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this is Milton and this is Shakespeare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this the hope of the Mother Church,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this⁠—why all these peaks are poems,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poems and prayers that pierce the clouds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I said “What does God do with mountains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That rise almost to heaven?”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="russell-kincaid" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Russell Kincaid</h2>
				<p>
					<span>In the last spring I ever knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In those last days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat in the forsaken orchard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where beyond fields of greenery shimmered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hills at Miller’s Ford;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just to muse on the apple tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its ruined trunk and blasted branches,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shoots of green whose delicate blossoms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were sprinkled over the skeleton tangle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never to grow in fruit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there was I with my spirit girded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the flesh half dead, the senses numb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet thinking of youth and the earth in youth⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such phantom blossoms palely shining</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the lifeless boughs of Time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O earth that leaves us ere heaven takes us!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had I been only a tree to shiver</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dreams of spring and a leafy youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I had fallen in the cyclone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which swept me out of the soul’s suspense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where it’s neither earth nor heaven.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="aaron-hatfield" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Aaron Hatfield</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Better than granite, Spoon River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the memory-picture you keep of me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Standing before the pioneer men and women</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There at Concord Church on Communion day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speaking in broken voice of the peasant youth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Galilee who went to the city</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was killed by bankers and lawyers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My voice mingling with the June wind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That blew over wheat fields from Atterbury;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the white stones in the burying ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around the Church shimmered in the summer sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there, though my own memories</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were too great to bear, were you, O pioneers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With bowed heads breathing forth your sorrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the sons killed in battle and the daughters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And little children who vanished in life’s morning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or at the intolerable hour of noon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But in those moments of tragic silence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the wine and bread were passed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came the reconciliation for us⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us the ploughmen and the hewers of wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us the peasants, brothers of the peasant of Galilee⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To us came the Comforter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the consolation of tongues of flame!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="isaiah-beethoven" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Isaiah Beethoven</h2>
				<p>
					<span>They told me I had three months to live,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I crept to Bernadotte,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sat by the mill for hours and hours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the gathered waters deeply moving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed not to move:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O world, that’s you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are but a widened place in the river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Life looks down and we rejoice for her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mirrored in us, and so we dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turn away, but when again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We look for the face, behold the low-lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blasted cotton-wood trees where we empty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the larger stream!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But here by the mill the castled clouds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mocked themselves in the dizzy water;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And over its agate floor at night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flame of the moon ran under my eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid a forest stillness broken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By a flute in a hut on the hill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last when I came to lie in bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weak and in pain, with the dreams about me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul of the river had entered my soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the gathered power of my soul was moving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So swiftly it seemed to be at rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under cities of cloud and under</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spheres of silver and changing worlds⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until I saw a flash of trumpets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the battlements over Time!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="elijah-browning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Elijah Browning</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I was among multitudes of children</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dancing at the foot of a mountain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A breeze blew out of the east and swept them as leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Driving some up the slopes.⁠ ⁠… All was changed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here were flying lights, and mystic moons, and dream-music.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cloud fell upon us. When it lifted all was changed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was now amid multitudes who were wrangling.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then a figure in shimmering gold, and one with a trumpet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one with a sceptre stood before me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They mocked me and danced a rigadoon and vanished.⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All was changed again. Out of a bower of poppies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A woman bared her breasts and lifted her open mouth to mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I kissed her. The taste of her lips was like salt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She left blood on my lips. I fell exhausted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I arose and ascended higher, but a mist as from an iceberg</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clouded my steps. I was cold and in pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the sun streamed on me again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I saw the mists below me hiding all below them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I, bent over my staff, knew myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silhouetted against the snow. And above me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was the soundless air, pierced by a cone of ice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over which hung a solitary star!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shudder of ecstasy, a shudder of fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ran through me. But I could not return to the slopes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, I wished not to return.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the spent waves of the symphony of freedom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lapped the ethereal cliffs about me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therefore I climbed to the pinnacle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I flung away my staff.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I touched that star</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my outstretched hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I vanished utterly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the mountain delivers to Infinite Truth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whosoever touches the star!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="webster-ford" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Webster Ford</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Do you remember, O Delphic Apollo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sunset hour by the river, when Mickey M’Grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried, “There’s a ghost,” and I, “It’s Delphic Apollo”;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the son of the banker derided us, saying, “It’s light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the flags at the water’s edge, you half-witted fools.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from thence, as the wearisome years rolled on, long after</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor Mickey fell down in the water tower to his death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down, down, through bellowing darkness, I carried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vision which perished with him like a rocket which falls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And quenches its light in earth, and hid it for fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the son of the banker, calling on Plutus to save me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Avenged were you for the shame of a fearful heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who left me alone till I saw you again in an hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I seemed to be turned to a tree with trunk and branches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Growing indurate, turning to stone, yet burgeoning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In laurel leaves, in hosts of lambent laurel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quivering, fluttering, shrinking, fighting the numbness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Creeping into their veins from the dying trunk and branches!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis vain, O youth, to fly the call of Apollo.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fling yourselves in the fire, die with a song of spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If die you must in the spring. For none shall look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the face of Apollo and live, and choose you must</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twixt death in the flame and death after years of sorrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rooted fast in the earth, feeling the grisly hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not so much in the trunk as in the terrible numbness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Creeping up to the laurel leaves that never cease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To flourish until you fall. O leaves of me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too sere for coronal wreaths, and fit alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For urns of memory, treasured, perhaps, as themes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For hearts heroic, fearless singers and livers⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Delphic Apollo!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
