<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Hill</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<article id="the-hill" epub:type="epigraph z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Hill</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Where are Elmer, Herman, Bert, Tom and Charley,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The weak of will, the strong of arm, the clown, the boozer, the fighter?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All, all are sleeping on the hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One passed in a fever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One was burned in a mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One was killed in a brawl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One died in a jail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One fell from a bridge toiling for children and wife⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All, all are sleeping, sleeping, sleeping on the hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where are Ella, Kate, Mag, Lizzie and Edith,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tender heart, the simple soul, the loud, the proud, the happy one?⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All, all are sleeping on the hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One died in shameful child-birth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One of a thwarted love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One at the hands of a brute in a brothel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One of a broken pride, in the search for heart’s desire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One after life in far-away London and Paris</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was brought to her little space by Ella and Kate and Mag⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All, all are sleeping, sleeping, sleeping on the hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where are Uncle Isaac and Aunt Emily,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And old Towny Kincaid and Sevigne Houghton,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Major Walker who had talked</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With venerable men of the revolution?⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All, all are sleeping on the hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They brought them dead sons from the war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And daughters whom life had crushed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their children fatherless, crying⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All, all are sleeping, sleeping, sleeping on the hill.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where is Old Fiddler Jones</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who played with life all his ninety years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Braving the sleet with bared breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drinking, rioting, thinking neither of wife nor kin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor gold, nor love, nor heaven?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lo! he babbles of the fish-frys of long ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the horse-races of long ago at Clary’s Grove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of what Abe Lincoln said</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One time at Springfield.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
